Hello. This is a test. Hello.
I hear me.
Check. Check.
Yes, sir.
Affairs
Committee for September 3rd, 2025 will
now come to order at
159. Oh, I have a minute.
I'm on a roll.
There we go. We'll now come to order at
Thank you. This meeting was called for
the purposes listed on the duly posted
meeting notice. The other committee
members are trustee Sean Shabban, uh
Cynthia Linton Gary, and alternate
trustee Renee uh Patterson. I'm sorry I
butchered your name, colleague. Uh, a
citizen desiring to appear before the
board of trustees shall complete the
hearing of citizen form 24 hours prior
to the meeting and file set application
with board services. At this time, I've
been informed that no one has signed up
to speak. Is that correct?
Thank you. We will begin with item A
which is a proposed balorate expansion
uh conversation or report item rather
and uh there is no action. So, Dr. uh
Margaret Ford Fischer.
Thank you very much Madam Chair, members
of the board. Applied baloria degrees
are workforce bachelor's degrees that
provide a seamless pathway for our
workforce students to continue on from
an associates workforce credential and
onto a bachelor's degree in the
workforce bachelor's degree field. If
the bachelor's degree is not available
through HCC, then our associate degree
completers may then opt to enroll at
another community college for the final
two years. If the balory degree is
available at their institutions,
colleges are allowed to offer a maximum
of five balor degrees. We are now
eligible to provide pathways to the
bachelor's degree in three additional
fields to serve the unique needs of our
communities, our students, and of course
the businesses who work with us. So with
your permission, Madame Chair, Dr. Norma
Perez, senior vice chancellor of
instruction and student services, and
Dr. Miguel Ramos, vice chancellor of
instructional services will lead the
presentation of the disciplines under
consideration and proposed and answer
all questions. Dr. Perez.
Thank you, Chancellor.
Hello.
Good afternoon, Madam Chair.
Good afternoon,
trustees and chancellor.
Today, we're here to present a more
detailed report on the significant three
new proposed Bak Balari degrees being
considered.
If you have attended any of the
community partnership events being held
at each of our colleges, you heard HCC
has identified three areas of focus.
nursing, computer information systems
and business for potential baloria
degrees uh development. I shared the
same um that these areas of focus at the
uh board of trustees meeting held on
June the 18th, 2025
described that at the time as nursing,
computer science, and business
management. The next step in the process
is collecting feedback and perspectives
from stakeholders to provide guidance
and context for program development.
Over the next year, each of these
program areas will engage in deep
conversations about the design of each
degree plan,
including curriculum,
potential specialization tracks, as well
as faculty needs and budgetary needs.
The goal would be to present at least
one, if not two, fully articulated new
balari degree plans for the HCC board of
trustees consideration by November of
2026.
With your permission, I will hand over
the presentation to Dr. Ramos who who
will provide a more detailed overview of
how we came about the selection of these
three proposed balar degrees. Dr. Ramos.
Good afternoon, Chancellor, Madam Chair,
and trustes.
Good afternoon.
So, I want to walk through the process a
little bit of how we arrived at these
areas of focus. And I do want to
emphasize from the start that they're
areas of focus, but these are not
definitive. If for those of you that
were here during the previous
deliberation around artificial
intelligence and healthcare management,
we went through some iterations. Uh at
the beginning, we talked about different
strategies, different approaches. uh for
those that were here we actually had
begun with a healthcare management in
respiratory therapy and soon realized
why would we limit ourselves to just
respiratory therapy so we opened up a
little bit so first I want to illustrate
the timeline going from a h level one to
a level two so we saw our first balor
graduates in May which is a great
achievement for them and a high point
for HCC that prompted the move uh from a
level one to a level two but this
timeline also illustrates that it was a
long journey to get there it took us
time to go through the process of
development, developing projections,
developing faculty strands, looking at
budget, and also looking at the
industry. We did a lot of research on
what's out there, what's needed, what's
coming next.
So now we're in the early stages of the
Balora development process after having
identified the areas of study that we
would like to focus on, which is our our
our topic for today.
The selection itself was based on
factors such as potential labor demand,
student demand, growth opportunities and
considerations of credentials of value
and high demand status in the region and
in the state. So the information itself
was drawn from several different places.
Faculty groups presented ideas uh that
the CEC considered. So they brought
forth their their proposals or
pre-proposals really around several
different strands. And we also had the
CEC uh make its own contributions during
deliberations and discussions.
One of the key uh pieces of information
that we focused on is a report from
handover research. So we actually worked
with handover for them to develop a uh
market opportunity scan because we
wanted to get a sense of what
opportunities were out there for HCC in
this balor space. So I'd like to point
out on this chart for those of you that
can see really it pointed out a couple
of areas. So everything that's in yellow
was what they call the information
technology strand. Everything in blue
was their management strand. So
business, management, organization,
leadership, these sorts of things. We
notice that in green, the registered
nurse was also a high growth performer
in terms of student demand and labor
growth. And then we also already have
the healthcare and health administration
management, which as you can see was
high growth on both strands. In fact, I
think if you dig deeper into the report,
that was the highest demand uh over
time. time they had a high growth
potential in healthcare management. So
it's great that we already have that. So
after looking at these strands, looking
at the information from the proposals
and then also the community survey
reports that were administered last fall
in our community partnership meetings,
uh as Dr. Bur just mentioned some of her
presentations in those meetings uh this
uh in the past couple of weeks, the
three strands that people focus on the
most in the community are business,
health management and uh artificial
intelligence. So again in that
technology computing space.
So based on all of these factors and
these deliberations we've identified the
general areas of computer information
systems, nursing and business. So the
snapshot that you see in this slide is
based off Litecast data. So it kind of
illustrates the potential for some of
these areas in terms of annual uh
starting average starting salary, annual
openings and the 5-year growth
potential. This data will change over
time as we investigate the various
possibilities within each of these
degrees. I think the only one, and Dr.
Harrison, you can tell me if I'm totally
off base here. The only one that won't
have specializations is probably nursing
because a BSN is a BSN. It doesn't have
any other any other flavors. Um,
business is probably the one that has
the most possibility for uh,
specializations because there's not only
is there a wide range of topic areas
within business itself and management
leadership, but there's also a lot of
opportunity outside the discipline for
management in other spaces. We already
have healthcare management, but there's
uh, industrial management, operations
management, so there's other
opportunities in that area.
The general timeline is development from
fall of 25 through September of 2026. So
over the next year, we're going to be
having these discussions, development. I
think the first idea is to kind of pick
the house. We've already identified the
rough the neighborhoods that we want to
be in. Now we got to define what kind of
house we have. What is the structure of
the degree that we're looking for?
Because once we identify, for example,
the zip codes that we're going to be
using, we can start then deliberating on
facilities, faculty needs, uh financing,
all of the different budget elements
that come into play. Our goal is to have
a rough estimate of budgets sometime uh
before we start the budget cycle so we
can include that in our preparations for
the following year. So in September
through October of 2026, our plan is to
have the fully realized degree plans for
in front of the curriculum and dean
council for review followed by our chief
academic officer review with ultimate uh
uh review by the board of trustees in
November or December of 2026 uh
depending on how close we want to be to
the submission date for the CB. In
January, we would submit to the Texas
Higher uh education coordinating board
followed by SAS submission. So both any
degrees at the backord level are going
to need to go through SAX review. And
then finally, we would hope for a July
22 27 Sachs approval decision with
implementation to follow in August of
2027.
So I think that the primary focus at
least initially will be in the business
area and the computer information
systems area. We want to make sure that
we get through uh cleanly on the nursing
programs before we make that attempt.
But that doesn't mean we can't work on
the balor degree in the next year for
nursing as well. just to be prepared for
all eventualities.
So that is the end of the formal
presentation, but I'm happy to entertain
any questions or comments uh that you
all may have.
Colleagues, any questions?
Trustee Siobhan,
appreciate the presentation and an
incredibly exciting um opportunity for
the institution and for the greater
Keyson community going forward on this.
Um, just want to say the the one of
these that is, you know, hands down
support go as quickly as we possibly can
from my perspective is the nursing
degree. I think there's a clear need. We
got a clear lane. Um, the faster that we
can get that up and running um, in my
perspective, the better. Um, on the
other two, I heard what y'all heard in
the community um, partnerships meeting
where there was a lot of interest in
these uh, in these degree paths and
these pathways. Um, I think there's
there's two elements that I'd really
want to make sure that we're diligent
about as we're developing these
materials through the fall semester. Um,
the first is these are pathways that
have a lot of current activity with some
of our four-year partner institutions,
UV, UV downtown, as well as some of the
bigger statewide universities. And so,
um, question number one, um, have y'all
had an opportunity to engage with our
four-year partner institutions about how
our offering might flange up or compete
with their four-year offerings to make
sure that we're we're not actively
competing over the same needs, that we
have discrete lanes and that, you know,
everybody can attract the students that
that would be attracted by the
institutions.
Sure. We haven't had direct discussions
with four years. We do scan the four
years to make sure that we have uh some
space to work with. There's actually a
formal process through the CB in which
we submit the planning uh to them and
the CB reaches out to the herk so the
regional GF coast council here and they
then have an opportunity to provide
information to us about any concerns
they may have. It's a pretty standard
process. We receive those notifications
all the time. I think recently we got a
masters in computer science to review uh
which doesn't really affect us. So we
said that's fine. But every institution
in the region receives a notification.
and each president receives it and they
distribute it to their provos or chief
academic officers and we have those
conversations.
No, thanks for that. I'll just over the
next month I think it'd be really
helpful before y'all come back to us
just to to have conversations especially
with those Houston area for your
institutions um so that we can get you
know their input through you in that
presentation about everybody's comfort
level with us standing up what could
from the outside look like competing
pathways. I think that would be a really
helpful addition to that presentation.
Um the second question is on the
computer information systems. Um there's
a lot of buzz in the last couple of
weeks about AI finally starting to
visibly chip away at employment data in
those uh systems. I think the St. Louis
Fed just issued a report um showing that
both computer science and computer
engineering undermployment statistics
are a couple of percentage points higher
than the broad graduating undergraduate
population. Um, and so a curious um how
y'all are taking things like that into
account, but b curious if if the
employment situation in the computer
science and computer engineering sectors
degrades further because of the impacts
of AI, is there a backup plan? um like
is there another degree path that we
could explore that's less exposed to
that kind of like AI influenced
short-term um you know employment
opportunity impact so that we can still
fill out our our dance card of five
pathways without diving into something
that's already kind of structurally weak
from an employment standpoint.
Absolutely. Like we always want to make
sure we have backup plans. So we there
were other ideas in the hopper in terms
of what we might consider for a baloric
degree and certainly putting out a call
for more ideas is always an option in
terms of examining market and labor uh
information that is something we
constantly are engaged with. So for
example when we were looking at
healthcare management and artificial
intelligence we actually did a deep dive
on a lot of not just think pieces but
also uh presidential commission reports
on artificial intelligence labor market
from the department of labor on
healthcare management. So it's very
deliberate process and one thing that I
can say with full confidence is that we
would not propose an award in which we
saw a a decline in potential over time.
One of the key components in our annual
program vitality reporting is an
automation or I'm sorry in our liccast
reporting is the automation index which
gives us a long-term view about the
extent to which a particular discipline
may be affected or impacted negatively
by automation components. Uh so we
always take that into account as well in
terms of the long term. The flip side of
that is trying to gauge the the
long-term perspective of the field
itself. So for example, if you had tried
to go to law school 10 years ago, people
would have said you were crazy because
the law school enrollment had plummeted
and and been destroyed essentially. But
it's made a comeback. So at some point
it there was an additional uh increase
in enrollment. One of the areas that we
always focus on with that in that regard
is petroleum. We see peaks and valleys
depending on the market. And so we
generally tend to not panic too much
about declines in a given year. We try
to look at the long-term perspectives uh
in order to understand whether something
should be you know consolidated or
deleted or if it's simply something we
see in the market at that time but it's
going to come back at some point.
All right. Thank you. You're welcome.
Thank you Trusty Sheban.
Yeah.
Okay. Well, thank you. That was very
thorough. So, thank you.
Thank you.
Now, we'll move to if there's nothing
else, we'll move to item B, early
college high school uh program update.
Chancellor.
Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
Members of the board, this is a
discussion item that will provide an
update on the early college high school
program and performance outcomes. And
with your permission, Madame Chair, Dr.
Norman Perez, senior vice chancellor and
Dr. Lewis, associate vice chancellor of
academic readiness will provide an
overview and respond to questions. Dr.
Perez.
Thank you, Chancellor. Good afternoon
again, Madame Chair, trustees, and
chancellor.
Today we want to highlight HCC's early
college early college high school dual
credit program. Through partnerships
with multiple independent school
districts, HCC provides students with
the opportunity to earn an associate
degree while completing their high
school diploma. This initiative
exemplifies HCC's commitment to a local
focus and through the successes of each
student ensures a global reach.
At this time, I'd like to introduce the
HCC dual credit team that actually does
the work to ensure our partnerships with
the ISDs continue to flourish and
expand. Will Dean Chavez and associate
dean Lilian Baldwin please stand?
[Applause]
Next, with the P16 directors, please
stand.
[Music]
and then our pathway uh advisors and any
and any other dual credit staff.
Our pathways advisors must be at the
high schools. Again, thank you you guys.
Thank you again for supporting us with
that request last year. Uh shortly
you'll hear from the associate vice
chancellor, Dr. Desmond Lewis.
We also we are also proud to mention
that Texas's first Early College High
School
Challenge Early College High School was
established in 2003 as a collaboration
between Houston ISD, Houston A+
Challenge, and Houston Community
College, now Houston City College. It
continues to thrive on HCC's West Loop
campus, graduating students year after
year. It should also be noted that five
of our early college high schools were
ranked in the top 20 best high schools
in the Houston area per the 2526 US News
and World Report which exemplifies the
excellence of this initiative.
Well, this presentation is about the
early college high school. Keep in mind
that we also now have nine PEK high
schools. Three in HISD,
two in Fort Ben, and one in Stafford,
and three in different charter schools.
As a native Houstononian and HISD
graduate, I cannot emphasize enough the
importance of the early college high
school credit uh high school dual credit
program for our community. This program
has transformed countless lives and is
positioned to continue making a
significant impact. Now, with your
permission, I will hand over the
presentation to Dr. Lewis, who will
provide a more comprehensive overview of
the early college high school program,
its performance outcome, and its
support. Dr. Lewis.
Thank you.
Good afternoon, Madame Chair, trustees,
chancellor, esteemed colleagues, ladies
and gentlemen. The early college program
high program offers high school students
an amazing opportunity for degree
attainment while completing their high
school diploma.
With this being said, an overview of its
supports will provide you a clear
understanding of the impacts of this
amazing program.
This is just giving you an overview of
the two types of pathways which align
with the types of endorsements that
students are placed in which would be
academic or workforce. Early college
high schools align more with the
academic whereas PEK would be more
workforce.
Here you have the definitions and the
types of the dual credit that are
offered here through our dual credit
program which are the early college high
school, the PEK and traditional. Now,
let me say we're growing in all of these
areas, which you'll see some evidence of
that in a moment.
These, as you look at all the dots on
this screen, and they grow each year, we
have more and more dual credit
locations. So, this represents all of
the dual credit locations across the
district that HCC currently participates
in. And this focuses on the early
college high schools, which you see
there are several early college high
schools on this map.
Now let's get into an overview of the
entire early high school process. The
process of early college high school
designation is initiated by K12 partners
where it indicates this partnering
institution or IIA uh to deliver the
college courses. As noted, the process
is ongoing and has multiple stages. So
with all of our early high schools, they
will be in different stages depending
upon the year that they were established
or approved by TEA.
HCC has four ISD partners with 12 early
college high school locations whereas
HISD has the most which are nine and of
those nine two Shartown International
and Westside are newly designated
starting this fall. They're considered
schools within a school.
Now as reported in US News as Dr. Perez
said a moment ago many of Houston area
schools rank high of the top 15. HCC
provides dual credit for 11 of those
schools. Now, we're continuing to spread
out and hopefully we'll get to most of
all of these schools if they're within
our service area.
Here you'll see the data indicates
stable early college enrollment from
year to year with a cumulative increase
over the three years.
The data for completers, and let me
define completers for you. Completers
are the students who've earned an award
while they're in dual credit. So that's
what completers is referring to. And you
can see there's an increase there as
moving from year to year as well.
The data here in regard to awards
because of course the completers they
earn awards there's an increase here as
well. And from academic year 22 to 25 by
40.1%.
And from academic year 24 to academic
year 25 there's a 7.5% increase. So
we're doing better year after year.
Early college high school rates indicate
overall stability and in most casement
cases is improving. So we're working on
those areas that we need to focus on and
those areas where we're doing well. We
continue to thrive
here. The number of students returning
to HCC from early college dual credit
programs is decreasing. That's not
negative. That's a positive because it
means more students are completing. And
that's the purpose for those students to
be here. They're completing and they're
receiving their awards. The most recent
graduation acts as evidence of the
everinccreasing number of graduates from
dual credit.
This slide just indicates the number of
tr the transfer schools for all of those
early colleges and as you see it's a
wide range of schools, University of
Houston and so forth and so on.
In regard to the supports for dual
credit,
there are multiple tiered supports as
noted on this slide. Each early college
area has a dedicated P16 director
advising team and also they have uh
other support staff. These teams provide
comprehensive supports to the early
college and dual credit students from
the time of onboarding throughout
graduation. The supports include degree
plan distributions, pro progress
meetings, early alert follow-ups with
necessary academic and non-academic
supports, just to name a few.
Furthermore, the dean and associate dean
act as a second tier of support with the
follow-up as needed with the ISDs
through monthly dual credit advisory
committee meetings where feedback is
solicited and necessary actions are
taken immediately.
To provide further detail, you see the
different types of processes we have
here in regard to the early college
process. The students are identified by
the ISDs. Again, as I said with the TEA
designation of early college or PEK
information comes from the high school
and we work collaboratively with those
high schools whereas at some point
there's a workshop and various meetings
with the P16 team and the early colleges
where the public students so forth and
so on are able to work through those
processes. And you can see at number
three the commit to complete and working
to ensure we get the buyin from the
students and their families at the
beginning of their entire early uh dual
cur dual credit process. Then we have
degree plan reviews throughout the
process and of course we monitor their
progress all the way through completion.
In conclusion, the early college
designation is determined by TEA. We
have multiple partnerships with various
different ISDs and of course one MSD.
Early college enrollment is going up.
The completers are increasing. The
awards are increasing. Success rates
remain relatively high and stable. Our
supports, as you just saw a moment ago,
are very robust. And the process is
collaborative and student centered. So,
I'll take any questions that you have at
this time.
Yes, thank you for that presentation. I
I do. you mentioned earlier the um the
number of high school students uh in
dual credit is uh the number is
decreasing in terms of enrollment or
continuing the enrollment in HCC and
that that's a good thing right and so
but now that we're offering um four-year
degrees what is the plan uh of this area
to market that so that we do get these
students to come in and enroll in these
new four-year degrees
it's a great question. I'm glad you
asked it. Now, I was focusing on when I
said the number was going down on the
early college students whose purpose is
to obtain the the associates degree
while they're in school. So, they're
completing those. The plan to move
forward with that is we're meeting with
our students in the process now to see
how many of those students we can get to
obtain additional credentials while
they're in school.
Additional credentials. Correct.
Yeah, that's what we're doing. We have a
we have boot camps. We have in fact Dr.
Perez and I have a meeting tomorrow with
HISD to speak through some of these uh
matters and also we've met with various
other districts in regard to those same
opportunities. But to answer your
question specifically, Dean Chavez and
her team, they're collaboratively and
strategically working with each of the
partners to align what those students
are doing within their degree plans that
they're on at the school and their
future plans if their plans align with a
4-year degree or certificate with the
programs that we're offering here at
HCC.
Yes. because this dual credit program I
I would like and us to continue to see
that as a as a pathway to get students
here,
right? And and with with what you just
said, whether it's through, you know,
looking at some other certification
after they get that two-year associates,
a four-year degree, or whatever that may
be. Uh so, okay, that there's that. The
other thing is you you you are referring
to ISD. So you're eliminating and I know
we've talked about private schools and
and how we've tried that, but I still
think that's a whole other area that we
really need to market to and that's that
private school setting. Uh because not
all of those students are are going to a
four-year degree like is the case in any
school system, right? And then also when
you just say ISDS or MSDS, uh you're
also leaving out not only the three
charters you're working with now, but
also all the other potential charter
schools that we could be working with.
So moving forward, I'd like us to to
tweak that if you don't mind. and and
let's be more I don't know if we say
school systems or or how we say that but
when we just identify it as an ISD we we
leave out all the other potential you
know uh uh students that are attending
these um these other institutions that
that need to partner with us. So I just
wanted to to to say that and um but
other than that the presentation's very
clear um I like what I'm seeing so thank
you I appreciate that. colleagues, any
questions or comments? Trusty Sheen,
just one second. Amazing presentation
and amazing work by by the whole team.
It's really great to see these numbers
continue to to move in the right
direction and I know y'all are impacting
a ton of lives by the work that you're
doing. Um the one question I had on here
is um on your your first three panel
slide with the different offerings of
the academic associates, the PEK, and
dual credit. Um I I was a little bit
surprised to see that we don't yet have
kind of a standalone PEK. um early
college program. So curious from your
perspective with with the different
conversations you're having with our ISD
partners and charter partners um is
there an appetite for that and is that
something that we could see in the next
3 five years standing up a PEK dedicated
or PEK focused campus to really meet
that need?
Okay. Well, I'm glad you mentioned that
and it speaks also to um Trustee Tamas.
We do have PEKs. We have several PEKs.
Um but this this particular uh
presentation focused on the early
college. So the early college and the
PEX or forms of um moving students
through to let them obtain. So it wasn't
an oversight with the MSDS or the ISDs.
It's just that with the charter schools,
they those are all PEKs. So we have 10
PEKs and those PEKs we have with two
ISDs, one MSD and three charters that we
have with the PEK. And with those PEKs,
we're working through collaboratively.
But more to that point, here's something
I'm sure you will find very interesting.
With one of our ISDs, we're working,
they don't have the PEK designation, but
the purpose is to get students through.
And at Barbara Jordan, right now, we are
working with HISD with several different
programs to get students in to make sure
they complete. And besides Barbara
Jordan, and I have to give a shout out
to Dr. fortune at North Forest. We have
North Forest High School. We have
students being bus there now for various
PEK and CTE alignment courses. So to
answer your question, Trusty Chibin, we
have PEK aligned and set up programs
again with this um with this particular
slide. Um the early college is focused
more on academic. The PES are for
working on workforce. Yes,
I think if you don't mind the question
that you that uh Trusty Sheban is asking
and I know that I've talked to
colleagues out there more in the charter
world. Uh there is a lot of interest in
having a standalone PEK college is what
he's referring to. No, we don't we don't
have that. We have early college, but
the need for PEK and I know several uh
those of those leading the charter of
move have tried or are trying or would
like to chancellor partner with HCC to
have that that at one of our campuses
where it's a standalone PEK uh academy.
That's really really important because
it's not just the the academic piece
with the early college dual credit
piece, but it's also that that PEK
piece. So, I'd love for us to truly work
together with our presidents and all to
to open our doors to that possibility of
how we can partner with with folks
whether it's ISDs or charters or
whatever it may be to see how we can
join together to do that.
I I just I want I'm glad you brought
that up because right now we are
currently working with Aldine High
School and they're trying to create
their first PEK for health sciences
along with with Dr. Harrison. We've been
meeting with Dr. Harrison and with
Memorial Herman. I'm sure all of you
heard about the funding that Aldine
received from Bloomberg. The idea is
that that it the focus of that school is
basically health sciences and it's it's
a new facility. They're creating a new
building and they've asked HC to partner
with them. So, we're working with them
and um and hopefully we'll get that
running. I think we're shooting for
spring.
Yes. sometime in spring to hopefully
start some classes out at that location
but it will be a early college high
school but for PEK
PEK thank you Dr.
Anything else? Trusty Sheep,
that was it. Thank you very much,
colleagues, anyone? Okay.
Yes, madam chair.
I'd just like to make sure um again,
thank you for the presentation and also
uh in seeing our early colleges, they've
been very successful and I know that
they're always having a waiting line uh
to get in and so that speaks very highly
of it. And so some of us get phone calls
and see if we have any direct
connections to get their students in
their family members. And so uh we just
need to keep making it challenging,
exciting, and letting them know that
this is, you know, this is when we have
graduation, those little gold collars
you really stand out. And some this last
graduation, I think we had more with
gold collars than others. and the
comment was, "Wow, they're doing really
well." So, I think they're they're
hearing that it's free, you know, and
they're coming to college and getting
those credits. So, uh, congratulations
again.
Thank you.
Great work. Thank you.
Okay. Well, if there's nothing else, we
will move to item C, an update on our
ride metro program. And I'd like to
remind my colleagues that uh every month
we I send out communication so that if
you have any topics that you'd like
discussed that those are added to the
agenda and in my conversations before
every meeting with the chancellor um she
takes that information and is really
great about making sure that it's on the
agenda and that we get this um you know
something that we can talk about and
discuss. So thank you for that
chancellor. Uh so the next item is the
right metro program. if you could uh
take it from there.
Thank you very much, Madame Chair and
members of the board. This item provides
an update on progress toward becoming a
sponsor of reduced rate cards for
students and an update on the ride metro
program. And with your permission, Madam
Chair, Dr. Sheri Han, senior vice
chancellor, finance administration will
provide the update. Dr. Han,
thank you so much. Thank you, board
chair, trustees, and chancellor.
This report is just a very brief update
about our intention to offer discounted
mass transit fair through the new ride
metro program. There is a current QARD
program offered through Metro.
It's slightly different terms and
conditions than what we're moving to.
We were hoping that we could launch in
late September, early early October. It
may be November by the time we actually
see Metro step up to their expected
launch date. Uh they don't have a date
certain yet and I just checked on it
yesterday. Meanwhile, students, we have
a volume of the old Q card that was
distributed in previous years and it's
now being resupplied. We have about
2,000 of those cards to be distributed
across all campuses. This card contains
0 for free trips which is part of the
new terms and conditions of the ride
metro program, but it does still have
the 50% te fair discount. So, it was no
cost to us and it still is no cost to us
until we bridge into that new program.
Um, it's under the contract is under
review by general counsel. Um, we've
shown you the flyer to promote it.
Everyone's pretty excited about it. We
also have a very detailed implementation
plan to asssure that since the new cards
will have a dollar value built into
them, almost $5. You'll see it on
another slide. We want to make sure that
they're secure when we receive them and
secure as they are distributed. We also
have a plan to ensure that only students
receive the cards so they don't
disappear in other ways and we have a
kind of a clever way to do that
electronically.
So we looked at several different views
of the cost for this. We started out
with a $69,000 cost. We felt that was
too expensive for us given our budget
constraints for FY26. We wound up with
300 3,446
cards that would be distributed across
all six brick-and-mortar campuses. Uh
based on the colleg's projected needs,
we work with the colleges to determine
what they need. The cards would be
distributed for the fall and spring
semesters. The cost went from 69,000 to
roughly 23,000. And there would be uh
several free trips on the card just to
kind of wet the appetite of the student
to start using the card. roughly $5 per
card as you can see there with a $2
activation cost. We also built in just
because we are conscious of education
and how important it is. We're saying
you need to have at least at least 66
credit hours built in or 80 contact
hours. We won't give it for less than
that.
And then we'll maintain contact and
collaborate with Metro during the
transition period. And we I do keep in
touch with them periodically to see if
things are moving along any sooner. Now
students once that $4.80 is used up on
the ride metro card they can add to the
card. So it will be a card they keep.
They don't it's not temporary. It's a
card they keep and can add to and
continue to get a discount. As a matter
of fact on the 10th ride after 10 trips
I believe they get one free trip. That's
what the flyer looks like. The various
colleges and cos have this and are
distributing it. Although we know that
this is yet to be realized by Metro.
Happy to answer any questions at all.
Thank you. Thank you for that update.
Any questions or comments, colleagues?
No. Thank you.
My pleasure.
Appreciate that.
Oh,
we have someone.
Yes. Trusty Reichart.
Hi.
What can you compare it to what we had
before?
Sure. Sure. It It's sort of uh here's
it's a sort of a semantic difference, if
you will. Before we were considered card
distributors. So students got the same
50% discount. Students could get the
card. It had no value on it but they got
a break on the fair. Right now Metro in
order to make some revenue is calling us
sponsors. And in order to be sponsors we
have to give them some revenue. And
that's what the $4.80 per card
represents. Several free trips. Each
trip would be $120 which is the 50%
discounted fair. So, we're giving the
students a little teaser free trip,
several free trips, and then students
would add to the card as they might have
done previously with the old card. So,
students still benefit at the same rate.
It's just that this is now costing the
college system $23,000 a year, whereas
before we had zero cost.
Uh I would just like to emphasize uh and
ask the administration to please keep
the trustees in mind since our previous
arrangement that was cheaper for the
college fell apart. If there's ever a
time where you can't hold on to
something like that, that the trustees
have lots of connections in Metro. we
have a lot of work that we do um with
people associated with Metro and so that
is something that we can step in and
advocate for our students if necessary.
So, I just ask that you please keep us
apprised if you know if you're unable to
hold on to a benefit that our students
have um to to keep us apprised and and
in the loop and hopefully we can we can
try to uh bring something like that. Uh
and hopefully we can do something in the
future to make things uh cheaper for the
the college. Thankfully, it won't
increase prices for the students, but
you know, it is an expense. It is money
that we could be spending on other
things. Thank you.
Absolutely. Thank you.
Thank you. Anything else?
Okay. Thank you once again. Appreciate
you. Next item is item D, uh, career
services update. Madam Chancellor,
thank you very much, Madam Chair,
members of the board. This is a
discussion item to provide a career
services update that allows students to
assess the utilization of relevant
resources provided by Houston City
College, including CareerHub used to
assist students in their pursuit of
gainful employment. So with your
permission, Madam Chair, Dr. Romel
Young, vice chancellor, will present the
report. Dr. Young.
Thank you, Madam Chancellor, Madame
Trustee. Thank you, Madam Chair, and
members of the committee. Thank you for
the opportunity to share the career
services report today. Career services
is an integral part of the HCC
experience for our students, connecting
students to employers and employers to
our students. If you will indulge me
just for one moment to just acknowledge
the folks who actually do this work on a
daily basis. just want to just if you'll
just please stand.
[Applause]
Thank you. Thank you for what you do and
thank you for the the opportunity to
share that information. Uh career
services afford students an opportunity
to do uh connect with employers to
include uh events uh taking career
services uh opportunities to engage with
employers and and that's what we want to
talk a bit about today. Career hub is
one of the tools that we use to let us
know what's happening with our students
and you have that before you.
Career hub utilization is what we're
sharing with you today and we're
identifying from 2022 to 2023 through 24
2025 the experiences our students have
had through the use of career career hub
and you see the unique login and this is
our students actually logging into the
system the career services I mean the
career services uh hub 14,000 students
roughly logging in that's from from the
8600 number to 14,000
is about a 49% difference. So that's
that's been increasing over time. Uh
resume loads. So our students are
engaging with employers. We're helping
them develop their resumes. And you see
the numbers there are 43 54 and 25
24 25. And that's the the the difference
in 20 22 23 is about a 23% increase.
kiosk touch points and you're familiar
with touch uh uh kiosk our students are
going and logging into to kiosk about
17,000 students have done that for the
24 period up from the 10,000 that you
see in the 22 23 period again this is
utilization of our career hub service
um relatively flat on the student
appointment requests
uh the number the high number is 34 34
2471 and 2425.
And job applications that affords our
students an opportunity to upload their
their applications uh was higher in the
2324 period slightly down to 10 uh 36
363 which is roughly a difference of
6.2%.
career hub utilization from an employer
perspective. And so employers and career
hub registrations are down just a little
uh about
from 2024 was 867. That's the high and
in 2024 25 was 712.
Job postings were higher in the 2022 233
period and slightly down to 1,700 in the
25 2425 period.
Employer signups, this is where
employers are coming on our campus and
and engaging with our students. You see
that number has increased and so we're
delighted to see that number come from
118 up to 338 to 538.
of experiential learning experiences.
It's slightly relatively flat for the uh
that period from 829 to 812 in 202024.
Hi, and I usually don't do this, but
yes,
if you go back to slide two,
two
on the job adopt applications, and you
may have addressed it and I and I missed
it for a moment to to check something to
my right, but what do you attribute that
decrease in job applications to? Let let
me if you don't mind to rely on a
resource here. James, if you don't mind
coming forward,
give a little insight on that.
Okay. Good afternoon, Adam.
Good afternoon.
Um, your question Oh, sorry. Your
question about the job applications,
those numbers going down. Uh there are
varying factors to what's happening when
students log into CareerHub. They're
going in to schedule appointments, apply
for jobs. Jobs are being posted
obviously by companies and as you see in
the data, the number of registrations
has been if anything going down
slightly. I think about what's happening
economically um not just in Houston but
around the United States that's
impacting how companies are recruiting
talent. um that could impact the
companies that are coming into our
system and posting jobs from time to
time. At the same time, uh this is also
about companies posting on a regular
basis in our system. And there's an
opportunity to engage those companies
consistently to ensure that they're
posting uh perhaps every semester uh
rather than annually. But I I'd say
there are varying factors to why those
numbers are slightly down.
And and I guess the reason I ask is for
what you said earlier. It's about how
are we engaging
uh these potential uh hiring
firms or companies or what have you to
to do that, right? To post those
openings and so forth. And and I I think
that's what I was getting at is that
what does that look like? What does that
look like if I'm a company? How are you
what what does that marketing effort
look like uh so that we can get them to
do this at at greater numbers? So as you
I think here the maybe the previous
slide it was focused on employer
careerhub from an employer standpoint.
Um you could see that there were
hundreds of companies that posted um
created accounts in our system.
We engage those companies in our system
about posting jobs periodic updates
reminding them about our career fairs.
Our career fairs are stretched from
September all the way through April of
next year every year. So part of that
engagement is not just attending career
fairs, but it's also posting jobs,
posting internships. And so there's an
internal campaign engaging those
organizations to post with us. At the
same time, as you saw in the data, we're
also looking for ways to have companies
come on site and conduct interviews. And
you may have seen here in the data that
that number has gone up tremendously in
the past couple of years. We're wanting
to emphasize companies conducting
interviews, not just posting jobs. And
if you can imagine in general in the
world of work, how companies recruit is
changing. Uh companies may have gone to
Zip Recruit or Indeed or posted on
LinkedIn or posted in a job board. But
we're also realizing that companies are
curating their own networking
opportunities that affords us an
opportunity to engage them to come on
campus or to conduct on uh virtual
opportunities as well. Um, as I
mentioned, varying factors into why the
number of job postings have gone down,
why the number of course applications
have gone down tied to job postings. Uh,
but we can do more obviously.
Oh, we've we look at okay, the
employers, who's posting, who's hiring,
um, you know, who needs to drop off or
or what do we need to do more because
you're not posting enough, you're not
interviewing our students, you're not
So, we're we're tracking all of that.
Correct.
Yes. And and I want you to know there's
over 8,000 contacts in our system.
Yes.
We're engaging them as a whole all the
time. And as you mentioned, um some of
them are actively involved in posting
with us, coming on campus, participating
in career fairs, conducting interviews,
and others are it just changes. If you
could imagine, you have people behind
the scenes that are creating these
accounts. These people change from month
to month. they leave their roles, go to
another company. And so there's quite an
operation behind the scenes to keep
track of all those contacts to ensure
that they're relevant, uh, that they're
still working in their roles, that when
we're sending emails, is it really going
to someone? Is it going just to an
automatic reply or is it undeliverable
because then that person doesn't work
there anymore? Then we follow with the
company to find out who is the new point
of contact that we can add into our
system, continuing that engagement.
So it's quite an operation when we talk
about 8,000 contacts in our system.
Absolutely. Absolutely. Thank you. Thank
you.
Okay.
Uh data. Well, one of the things that we
talked about here, trustee, was the
opportunity here. What are the pain
points? And that was one of the things
that you lifted up. So there there's a
whole apparatus that's that's working
here behind the scenes that's that's
bigger than what you see in these
numbers necessarily. And so improving
upon those things and we identify the
opportunity to improve upon these things
is is the is the challenge, but it's
also the opportunity. And so we have the
right people in place to be able to do
that. Um as just a little more data with
respect to career fairs and these are
employers coming onto the campus of HCC.
Uh for the 2425 period we had 26 career
fairs about 3,200 students participating
in just a little over 300 employers
participating in those activities. And u
this is just a depiction of of of one of
of the 25 26 uh events that were held
during that time period. Some of the
participants during the deep time period
you see are from the healthc care
industry. The port of Houston um MD
Anderson is is a representative example
of the healthcare industry. Um just
wanted to give the board a sense of the
types of folks that we're having an
opportunity to engage and for our
students to engage with wi with their on
their journey to employment. And so
we're we're looking at students who are
working with us and we'll talk a little
bit about that on the end. So just
wanted to share that with you. a campus
interview with participants include some
of these folks, State Farm, Atachi.
Um, and then we did a survey with our
students. About 2,000 students were
surveyed at graduation to identify what
percentage of them were employed
full-time uh at the time that they
graduated. And you see the numbers here
respectively are 25% uh uh uh for uh
employed full-time students. 22% were
employed part-time said they were
employed part-time unemployed seeking
employment 34% unemployed seeking
employment unemployed not seeking
employment which is 19% and seeking a
continuing education program uh we have
folks who are interested in in in
education undoubtedly 80% of our
students are are continuing their
educational pursuits and never utilizing
the career services uh hub here is 66%
so that's an opportunity for us to get
out, engage with these students to make
sure that they're aware that we have
opportunities that afford them an
opportunity to to go go to work if
that's what they desire to do. Uh top
selected universities from the students
who were pled were Prairie View&M, Texas
A&M, Texas Southern University,
University of Houston, and the
University of Houston downtown. And the
top employers that they selected were
Amazon, Harris County, HB, and Memorial
Herman. And I saved the best for last,
Houston City College.
So opportunities increase campus
interviews that's I think the data tells
us that promote company sessions more of
that. Encouraging faculty utilization,
working with faculty to kind of carry
this forward. promoting student
utilization, increasing the the students
util utilizing this this tool, enhancing
uh resume quality, incentivizing
students to attend these events and
benefit from the things that are
afforded them through them, leverage
faculty participation, and increasing
vendor participation. So, we have our
work cut out for us, but we're up to the
task.
Thank you. I always ask those questions
because it it is about monitoring,
right? Yes. you've got to to to monitor
and and I always like to hear, okay,
what are we doing? You know, what are we
doing? How are we keeping track and
making sure we're updating this complex
system of 8,000 for for example, right?
And so, thank you for that.
Thank you.
Any any comments or any questions,
colleagues?
This is a great update and uh
information. Thank you.
Thank you for listening. We appreciate
it.
So, if there's nothing else, I do want
to um my to my colleagues uh that are
that just arrived, we did talk about the
proposed for your expan for your degree
expansion. We talked about early college
high school um uh dual credit program
update, an update on the ride metro
program, and an update on career
services. So, uh, if you missed it,
please be sure to access the video and
you'll see um these this uh this the
information about each of this. So, it
was very thorough and thank you again,
Chancellor. Without uh anything else,
this uh meeting of the academic and
student affairs um meeting is now
adjourned at
2:52 p.m.
Thank you.
I got to get out of this.
Okay.
The meeting of the audit committee for
September 3rd, 2025 will now come to
order at
2:57 p.m.
The meeting is called for the purposes
listed on the duly posted meeting
notice. The other committee members are
trustees Renee Patterson, trustee Monica
Flores Reichart and the alternate
trustee Lu Davies and trustee Monica
Flores Reichart is uh remote.
Opportunity for public comments. A
citizen desiring to appear before the
board of trustees shall complete the
hearing of the citizen form 24 hours
prior to the meeting and file said
application with the board services
office. There are no citizens who signed
up to speak before the audit committee
today. Uh we will now discuss item A
risk mitigation report the deferred
maintenance. This is a report item. No
answer no action is required. Uh
Chancellor Ford Fischer will introduce
the item. Chancellor. Thank you very
much, Madam Chair, members of the board.
So, this is a discussion item that
provides an update on the deferred
maintenance risk mitigation strategy and
risk. And with your permission, Madam
Chair, Mr. Robert McCracken, vice
chancellor of facilities will provide an
overview and respond to questions. Mr.
McCracken.
Thank you, Chancellor. Good afternoon,
trustees. Uh, I just want to take a
minute at the very beginning of this as
we were putting this report together.
gave us an opportunity to kind of
reflect on where we've come over the
last year. And I I think when you look
through this report, you can see the
tremendous amount of work that's been
done by our facilities department to put
in place a consistent process for
managing of our deferred maintenance,
projecting out what those expenses are
going to be in future years, and really
monitoring how effective we're going to
be. Um there's a lot of data in this
report. I'm going to ask James Walker,
our interim chief facilities officer, to
walk through it um and just highlight
some of the items.
Thank you, Bob.
Madame Chair, trustees, Madam
Chancellor, thank you.
So we want to we wanted to give this
report an overview to focus on uh
preventative maintenance and and
monitoring systems deferred maintenance
uh for FY25 and deferred maintenance for
FY26.
Um touching on risk a bit um the the
biggest risk on on deferred maintenance
is need exceeding available budget. um
you know it can erode um degrade campus
campus experience and then it affect
starts affecting students at that time.
Uh a little bit about uh mitigation.
We'll get into more of this later but uh
we use preventative maintenance to
maximize the life of building systems
and equipment. Um we use it for
prioritization of projects and we use it
for budget budgeting and tracking.
All right, getting a little bit deeper
into the mitigation strategy we use uh
preventative maintenance
and system monitoring. You know, in in
the maintenance world, this is where the
the rubber really hits the road on on
what we do here. um deferred maintenance
plan was implemented to um replace
obsolete equipment. Uh we educate
constantly educate staff and vendors,
leverage technology,
um prioritization for repairs. Uh weekly
weekly uh visual inspections. We use
building automation, work orders, outage
tracking. And for example to to give you
a few examples of how this would this
works. Um this is this is a screenshot
of our building automation monitoring
system. So this is Southeast College um
the central plant condenser water system
side of the loop. So what this shows is
the chiller, it shows the pumps, it
shows the valves, it shows the cooling
tower and the condenser side. And in the
blue boxes, it gives you real time
information of what's going on in this
plant for Southeast Campus on on this
condenser loop. And I also like to point
out that if you look at the uh example
of the alarm, the little red dot um and
that tells that tells the system that
this this bypass pump is out of
tolerance. and it's then it sends to a
different page which is illustrated at
the bottom that someone needs to go
check on on that pump because it's out
of tolerance. So that's our building
automation monitoring. We have that
throughout the entire system.
Um like to highlight our work order uh
system which is a different system. In
the blue you see plan maintenance um
which is everyday PMS that we go out and
check the equipment. um the team goes
out and does that. Um then we have
reactive maintenance. That's when
something breaks uh and we have to send
somebody out to address that. And then
you you see the total um for a 12-month
period, it's 43,000 work orders put put
into the system.
So, facilities
um tracking and trending
um this is something we we've started in
December of 2024.
Um so we we've got partial data on this.
Um interruptions are rated as minor,
moderate, and major.
Um
this shows interruptions between
December 24 and July when the report was
done. And uh it shows the systems
affected, colleges affected. Um and if
you know the systems affected uh fire,
mechanical, electrical, things that are
on the top of the list of our deferred
maintenance u uh deficiencies.
Okay. Uh now we move to FY25 update.
Um this is a 7-year funding history.
You're familiar with this chart. We just
continue to add to this. Um but I must
add the the the note um that the year of
FY25 or 26, excuse me. Um the estimated
need was $43 million. Uh we got 15
million and a 10 million amendment in at
the end of 25.
Um active projects of 25. Uh these are
multi-year projects that have long lead
times, a lot of design. Uh so you'll
continue seeing us add to these and as
we complete them, they'll come off the
list.
Um funds by college
project financials.
Um this is the same information on funds
by college but it's just in dollar
format.
Uh exigent spend. So um we propose that
we we are attempting to stay under 15%
of the total budget for exigent spend
and we we we do that by our mitigation
efforts that we talked about a little
bit before. So um that's that's the goal
to keep this under 15%. But as you see
the trajectory of as we underfund the
exigent spin goes starts to go in an
upward trajectory.
All right. So deferred maintenance uh
the FCI facilities condition index. Um
you've seen this slide before. I thought
it'd be helpful to to add it in again um
to show the 15 million um investment.
So, we're we're roughly on the
uh green um the green line moving
towards uh 19.5 in 2030 which is getting
to be average and below average if we
continue with 15 million a year.
Okay. So, deferred maintenance program
facil uh FY26 as I mentioned before uh
15 million for approved in the in the 26
budget and 10 million for the amendment
at the end of 25.
Thank you for that. Um
this next slide uh it illustrates our
10step prioritization process that we
that we go through. Um currently we're
on step six and seven um while we're
validating and finalization of projects
for implementation.
So the the the annual assessment
summary, this this is just showing the p
the items that were funded in FY2526.
And then the blue is showing the the
items that will have to be reassessed
and and addressed at a f in future
years.
Um this is project budget by system. Uh
again, you see fire, life safety, HVAC,
electrical. Um that was at the top of
the list for our interruptions. As you
see, it's it's heavily um represented
here.
Um project breakdown by estimated cost.
Um, we thought it was important to show
this
slide because of the different the
difference between small, medium, and
large projects. As we see, not all
projects are large. So, um, the plan is
for the job order contracts to you be
utilized for the small and medium
projects and then the large $500,000
projects and over would come to the
board for their for their approval.
Um, we have some appendix in the back.
These are some definitions you've seen
before. I thought they'd be helpful.
ranking criteria systems uh current
deficiency list um where where we're
we're using uh to to generate our
projects
and summary of maintenance by building
um
I think we you know in in essence I
think we got a question about um th this
particular slide and and and I think the
answer is the 20 to 20 20 22 to through
25 through 2030 is shown on here and
then 25
through 35 is also shown on here. So in
essence, we could use this data um going
on into the to to the to the future, but
the industry standard recommends that we
we um conduct a new facilities condition
assessment in in 2029. So that concludes
my report. Uh, I'll be happy to answer
any questions for you.
Thank you. Um, I do know my my colleague
will have some questions. Trusty Chap
just have one. So, appreciate you
speaking to the outy years, the 2030 to
2035 deferred maintenance. Um, I think
it'd be helpful to understand a bit more
how y'all came up with those numbers
because I know we haven't yet done a
study to quantify it. So, if you've got
internal systems that are tracking and
forecasting organically, that would be
helpful to understand. Um and and you
mentioned so a that's number one. Number
two, I'm really happy to see that we do
have at least a swag at what those
deferred maintenance costs look like in
the out years so that the board can
start getting comfortable with, you
know, we've got this $400 million um
task ahead of us for the next 5 years.
It seems like the next 5 years are
currently forecasted to be not quite as
painful, but you know, when we put more
meat on the bones, that'll probably look
a little bit worse than it does
currently. Um so really pleased that
that number's in there. Um but yeah,
just some some more information over
time with um the assumptions that went
into that 30, you know, 2030 to 2035
number and how much we can really hang
our hat on it versus where do we really
need to study to fully flush it out, I
think would be helpful just as we set
start setting expectations. There's a
lot of other big ticket items including,
you know, ERP upgrades and all that that
could be coming in and we need to stack
all these on top of one another. So,
so, so yes. So um the way it works in
our database is so if we if we put a new
piece of equipment in today and we have
a 10 and it has a 10y year lifespan
um that will show up in needing to be
replaced in the life cycle of of uh 20
whatever 10 years from now. So that's
how it's calculated within the database.
it's expiring equipment that goes into
deficiency and that's why we do the the
the the re the the refresh each year to
make sure that we that because of budget
we have to push some things out. So um
that's how the database works. It it it
looks out um forward to make sure that
uh those pieces of equipment that are
expiring have some uh have some value to
them.
Very helpful. Thank you.
Mhm.
Trustee Reichard, is she there?
I'm here. No, I don't have any
questions. Thank you.
Okay. Uh, thank you. Uh, this is this is
this is the kind of in-depth report that
we were looking for for deferred
maintenance and trying to make audit
decisions or fiscal decisions concerning
what we're going to do with all of our
properties. Pluto's on the deferred
maintenance 10step prioritization
process update. That is very good to
know. Uh, and I'm sure you all stay on
task for that, but it is very
impressive. On page 8, your facilities
work order update.
Yes, ma'am.
It would be interesting to know since
this is a rolling 12-month window, what
this looked like 12 months ago. Are we
are our work orders increasing or are
work orders decreasing? What is that
looking like exactly? I
I believe we can run that. we can run
that report for you.
Okay. So, if we see it from 2022
to now, we want to see if the work
orders uh are increasing or decreasing
and sometimes per college. One of our
challenges is that we have buildings
that we have had for five lifetimes and
then we have buildings who are that are
relatively new. But it seems to me as I
read through this that the buildings
that are relatively new have some
deferred maintenance issues which I
think they should not have. But that's
just what I think. So we want to see if
the newer buildings are are faced with a
higher number of work orders as opposed
to the older buildings. I would think
that the older buildings would have the
greater issues and if they do not and
the new newer buildings do then what
what is going on with that? Um, thank
you for the tracking and trending
because this is tracking in December
2024. We have no data prior to that for
for facilities interruption tracking and
trending.
Well, we did it in a different manner
that that wasn't
really um
presentation friendly I would say.
Okay. So for a general
a general approach, we could see the
total cost for 2023
for facilities of the the total
facilities tracking for 2023. We may not
have to uh disagregate it, but if we see
it, we'll understand building
interruptions and what that looked like
in 2023 and what it looks like in 2024.
These uh graphs should give us a general
idea of which way we're trending and how
because when you start to stack the the
uh graphs on top of each other, there
are some pinpoints that you can actually
see and that's what we're going to see
when we get the data. Um, so
page 15.
I'm kind of weird in that I look at
deferred maintenance from four different
perspectives, but I'm not going to ask
you for four. I'm going to ask you for
an additional perspective, which is um
cost per square foot
uh for maintenance. I know that's a
weird way to do it. I really appreciate
Where's that document? I really
appreciate page 22, the deferred
maintenance projects budget, but I'd
like to see cost per square foot for the
buildings. That also tells you which way
you're trending in terms of repairs. And
it if if your construction was
well established,
then cost per square footage for certain
buildings should not be very high.
But if they are, and we may have to see
the the buildings the year they were
built. I mean, when you look at a
building that's built in 1999 versus a
building that's built in 2019, there are
clearly some things that you should not
see in 2019. There are some things you
should expect to see in 1999.
I also like the fact that you there's
you're utilizing the RS means
construction cost, but it's a little
behind.
Uh RS means
is a little behind. So we may have to
have a second uh cost construction
estimation system and they do have one
that's a that's more succinct. We may
have to look at it from that perspective
so that whatever the deficiencies are in
RS means we don't miss them with another
uh construction cost estimation system.
And that way, some of these prices,
some of these prices are okay.
Some of these prices questionable. And
so, if we're going to maintain our
fiscal integrity, we're going to have to
take a closer look with a with a a
system that's more succinct. Uh, but
this is this is excellent. And I think
Trusty Chiban and Trusty Reichart would
agree with me that this is very well
done and we appreciate it as we go
forward to try to determine what our
next steps are going to be as a board to
what we will do with all of the
facilities that we have. So, thank you.
This was very well done. Thank you so
much.
Thank you, ma'am.
So, is that the only thing that we have
to do? Oh, good. Well, we will not have
a closed session. Uh, trustee Reichart
is uh remote. So, the the audit
committee if there are no more questions
from the from the trustees on the dis.
If there are no more questions, we can
adjourn the audit committee. Oh, good.
Audit committee is adjourned at
3:16 p.m.
Perfect.
The meeting of the external relations
committee for September 3rd, 2025 will
now come to order at 3:17 p.m.
This meeting was called for the purpose
listed on the duly posted meeting
notice. The other committee members are
trustee Lu Davies, Shan Chedan, and
alternate Adriana Thomas. A citizen
desiring to appear before the board of
trustees shall complete the hearing of
citizens form 24 hours prior to the
meeting and file said application with
the board services office. There are no
citizens signed up to speak before the
external relations committee.
We have one item coming to the committee
and item A is a report item on external
relations matters.
This is the report item. No actions
required. Dr. for official will
introduce the item.
Thank you very much, Madam Chair,
members of the board. This item is for
discussion and provide a final report on
the 89th Texas Legislative Session,
policy considerations, and other
external relations matters. And with
your permission, Madam Chair, Dr. Ramil
Young, Vice Chancellor of Governmental
and External Relations, will provide an
overview and respond to questions. Dr.
Young.
Thank you, Madam Chancellor. Madam
trustees,
thank you for the opportunity to share
the report on external relations. We are
in the second call special session
and we wanted to just talk a little bit
about our legislative sessions and
related considerations.
Have before you the 89th legislative
session final report. It's also a part
of the the attachments, but you have a
hard copy form in your possession, and
it includes our work that was covered
during the 89th regular legislative
session to include those items that the
board adopted that were acted upon
during the legislative session,
appropriations matters, and bills that
we tracked, monitored, and that are
applicable to us. that gives you a
snapshot view of what those bills
require by way of compliance for the
institution. So that that document we'll
also send to you if we haven't done it
already, Sharon, through the office of
the chancellor a document that's
electronic. You can hoover over it with
your mouse and it'll take you to the
relevant section of this document. So
it'll be a little bit easier to find
things.
So the we've had two special sessions.
Um we uh in the first call session the
governor did identified 18 policy
considerations. Notable issues included
disaster preparedness redistricting. Uh
in no certain order public funds for
lobbying activities and taxation
matters. No bills passed during the
first call special session. That session
adjourned on August 15th at which time
the governor called a second special
session and that's where we are today.
When the governor called that special
session, he identified two 22 policy
considerations. Um it convened on the
15th. Notable issues included the same
from the the special session call
session one which were disaster
preparedness, redistricting, public uh
funds for lobbying activities and
taxation. And as we speak, the second
call session continues uh to operate.
Key bills that we were tracking during
the special session, particularly the
second special session and mind you the
the first special session related to the
composition of districts that is the
redistricting matter and the principal
bill file in that regard was HB4. You
note here that it passed the house on a
vote of 88 to 52. It passed the Senate
on a vote of 18 to1 and was signed by
the governor on uh on August the 27th.
There was no effective date assigned to
um HB4. I think the rules would provide
that if the governor doesn't assign an
effective date, it will become at at the
German of the spec special session 91
days it'll become effective. Um, and
then of course the companion bill, which
is also a redistricting bill, was placed
on the Senate calendar on September the
2nd. So that was yesterday. We only need
one of these bills to to pass. And so I
think you have that in HP4.
And we've been sending via the weekly
activity bulletin u notices about the
redistricting matter and other related
matters. And uh if you have any
questions with respect to those, we're
available to to answer those questions.
The only taxation matter that that
popped forward is is not moving at well
September 2nd. It was placed on the
Senate calendar relating to the
requirement uh regarding notice of
certain property tax related
information. Whether it applies to us is
a little fuzzy, but what this bill
essentially does is require uh providing
transparency in taxation matters. If
you're putting forth a tax rate, want to
make sure that the public is fully
aware. I think the board is already
doing that. But this would be enacted in
uh in this bill should it pass. SB13
relating to the use of uh by public
subdivisions of public funds for
lobbying activities. Uh that bill passed
on a on 18 to 11 vote and it was
referred to House State state affairs on
August the 20th. It's had no movement
since then. Um not sure that's going to
make it out uh to passage. So the only
thing that we will be looking at is the
redistricting matter thus far that's on
our radar screen.
Trustees, I'll pause there because this
the next section is probably a little
more robust. And so with respect to the
special sessions, if you have any
questions, I'm available to answer any
of those that you might have.
Okay. So, I'll shift gears and this is a
work done on which you've been uh
conducting as a board that the the SB37
relating to the governance of public
institutions of higher education
including review of curriculum and
certain degrees and certificate
programs. You've already covered the
faculty council or senate component of
SB37,
but it also includes training of for
members of the governing board that is
this governing board and other governing
boards like yours and the establishment
powers and duties of the Texas Higher
Education Coordinating Board's
UMBBuzzman office over which you have no
responsibility or any action necessary
from this board. But we've identified
and I'm hopeful that you are able to see
because we didn't memorialize it in the
presentation, but the the the flyer that
we passed out that has to do with review
of curriculum and certain degree and
certificate programs. That's the the big
ticket item that's on your agenda for
completion. That is the board of
trustees. And effectively the the time
to that tolls our work is January 1,
2026.
We've commenced some of this work
already, but the tolling the time is
January 1, 2026 and January 1, 2027 is
when this work should be complete. So
effectively, we have about a year and a
little bit to uh make this go forward.
Uh
so we
assembled the task force that helped
with the faculty senate initiative and
we've been working to try to pull
together next steps that would allow us
to ensure compliance with SP37 the
remaining provisions. You note here that
we sought the board's adoption of the
new faculty senate on August the 20th.
Uh, and so that's done. August 26th, we
convened a task force to establish an
agenda and strategy for compliance with
the remaining provisions of SP37 to
include review of curriculum in certain
degrees um
on September 3rd. That's where we are
today. We're presenting statutory
provisions, applicable dates, and time
and a timeline concerning compliance
with SB37. Let me note for your
consideration, the timeline for
implementation simply serves as a guide.
It's likely to change as we learn things
because this is a new bill, a new new
path that we're treading. Uh and we've
been talking with folks who have the
same responsibility to include um our
peers and the the coordinating board.
So, one of the things that we need to
determine from the governing board is to
determine from you whether you would uh
like to appoint a committee to assist in
the curriculum review. It is not
mandatory according to the provisions.
Let me also say that I am in no way
providing legal advice. I'm the
government relations person and I'm
providing just policy uh my policy
perspective and we we can rely on the
lawyers for the legal component of it.
But it appears that the language
provides that you have a
opportunity to appoint a committee to
walk through this process. What we have
assembled is a task force that's been
conducting the work up until now. So as
we determine from the governing board uh
whether it's desires to appoint a
committee, we'll proceed to continue it
complying with the with the relevant
bills. So that would be something that
we should identify. On September the
4th, the task force would uh convene to
review the core curriculum uh initiative
and PA map our uh path forward. That
would be tomorrow. Uh convening a task
force to address certain minor degrees.
So the the core curriculum is on the 4th
which is the big component. Then the
minor degrees would be on the 11th. We
would address that September the 17th.
There would be a regular board meeting
at which time we would either report on
or seek action on uh whatever the would
that be governance committee not
governance committee but the board
itself
on September
yeah convene task force to address
review of curriculum that's the task
force and convene task force to address
certain minor degrees in the regular
board meeting we would seek uh provide a
report or seek action on the 18th we
would convene the task force to address
institutional governance
concerning employment matters and then
on the 25th uh convening the task force
to address the additional u board
remaining training and sworn affidavit
that you'd have to send to the
legislature.
So this document and and I you should
have it in your possession identifies
all of the timelines in terms of when
things are required to happen. Um and
September 1, 2027 is the end date. Um,
let's see. October 1st,
tenatively present to the proposed uh
present proposed phase 2 draft policies
to the board governance committee with
an alternative potential presentation
date of November the 5th. That's the
piece that I was looking for, Nicole.
Thank you. Uh, and October the 2nd,
convene the task force to position
implementation of SB37 as appropriate.
And I might substitute
a task force for if the board elects to
have a committee, you would substitute
that for the committee rather than the
task force. But the task force has been
conducting the work up until this time
period. October the 9th, convene the
task force or committee to position
implementation of the remaining portions
of SB37. On the 15th, I switch to a
regular board meeting report or seek
action as appropriate. the 16th we will
convene the task force to position to go
through the remaining uh provisions of
SB37 throughout the period of October
23rd and the 30th. Then the timeline in
November would be board meeting report
seek action as appropriate. The sixth
board committee meeting report seek
action or as appropriate. On the 19th
report board uh regular board meeting
which is a report or seek action as
appropriate. On the 20th, we would
convene the task force to position
implementation of the remaining portions
of of SP37. December 3rd, board
committee meeting, report, seek action
as appropriate, convene task force to
position implementation of of SP 37.
Likewise, the same is true on the 17th
and the 18th, at which time we would be
done for the for the year. And we would
be ahead of the tolling of of the time
on January 1, 2026 with the remainder of
the year for being able to comply that
would take us through January 1, 2027.
Those are the the immediate first
identified steps that we would take to
march our way through the remaining
provisions of SB37.
Any
questions?
Any questions?
Sean,
I I have to first really appreciate the
detailed kind of timeline approach of
how we're going to get through the end
of the year with SP37. It's an
incredibly complex and impactful piece
of legislation and I I think we need
this level of organization to get it all
done in time. So, thank you for that.
Thank you.
Um on on the um general curriculum
review,
um
I know we we we need to make as a board
a decision about whether we want to
assign a committee to work this on our
behalf. I'm curious when would y'all
envision us or what when would y'all
envision the appropriate time for us to
name a committee uh to be if we were to
move in that direction? Is that a a
January thing? Is it a November thing?
I'm just curious like when we need to
start, you know, soliciting input from
our uh community members and such to to
get the right people plugged in.
Yeah. And I was yield to the chancellor
on on that question.
Well, thank you very much, Dr. Young,
Trusty Chieman. I think the appropriate
step would be to convene the task force
which will have an additional
subcommittee that will be a part of the
task force discussions and this is a
part of the conversation that I think
would be appropriate to look at the
appropriate timing because quite a
number of the academic team members will
be a part of the task force as well with
the administration and I think that we
would be able to get the best
recommendation
to the board as an outcome of that
meeting that will be held.
Thank thank you for that. I know there
was there was a conditional in there
about maybe October, maybe November, but
I think that discussion would be good to
bring back to us in October so we have
that additional time to get the right
nominees from the community to
participate. Um, second question. Um, I
I I've read this legislation a few times
and each time I've read it, I've been
confused about this requirement that we
need to um certify compliance on January
1 of the year that we're going to
undertake these reviews. So, is this
like we we tell them we're going to do
it and then we do it on January 1 or do
we do it and then on January 1, 2027, we
tell them we did it? Which which way is
it?
Yeah. and might I yield to council on
that that question?
Yes, we have looked at that uh trustee
and I think it would be best for us to
provide a legal counsel memo because
some of that involves legal advice but
we are not seeing where on January 1,
2026 we have that type of certification
due.
Okay. Thank you. Any
other questions?
I'm noticing a lot of education uh bills
that are passed that
based upon the legislative
um the new legislative funding plan. It
seems that some of these bills are not
going to provide funding for what is
required. Is that the case? Uh most of
the bills from the 89th legislative
session, we had a cleanup bill with
regard to and I forget it said 1786. I
forget the bill number. Um but the short
answer is you're correct. Um
we most of our funding is coming out of
the appropriations bill and you'll see
that on your introductory page at page
five and in the document that I gave
gave to you. you see the state
appropriations in the Texas Community
Colleges appropriations which is the
$2.4
billion and that then the $89.5
million for the uh supplemental funding
but the remainder of the bills were
there was only one bill that was a
cleanup bill that related to HB8 and it
wasn't an appropriations bill. So we had
two principal appropriations bill the um
primary the general appropriations act
and then the supplemental bill two bills
from from the on appropriations.
So for
the board
it it's going to be good for us to
really know and understand how we will
or will not be paid. Um, I know that the
list of um,
I guess the list of degrees or
certifications has been narrowed
that the it looks like the most popular
degrees have been eliminated from the
payment system.
Yeah. and you saw and some of those
metrics and and just incidentally
trustees the primary bill for
appropriations that is at page eight on
your in your document that do that that
book and it's SP1 and the supplemental
bill is up under it at HP500.
Uh but what you're referring to trustee
I believe is the the metrics that are
assigned and which which uh courses get
dollars assigned to them and so some of
that has been taken back. We saw some of
that at the uh TAC conference during the
summer.
Yes, sir. So some of those those courses
that were once given dollars are not are
no longer going to receive dollars and
so we've been conscious of that
and I see that there are a few bills
from Senate bill and even house bill
where they are addressing students with
disabilities also without providing
funding for that pathway. We have vast
academy which is extraordinary but it's
very narrow in scope in that if correct
me if I'm wrong we have fewer than 100
students a year in vast academy. Who who
where is best academy? Are they not here
today?
Not sure they're here represented today.
Okay. We we did get a request from the
TAC to identify all of those unfunded
state mandates and the the the
associated dollars that we expend to to
maintain those or make those happen. And
so we submitted what we thought was uh
helpful for them to share with in fact
the governor asked for it. So in
response to the governor's request for
that, we sent that uh maybe a month ago.
Okay. So I I think my statement is this
is a tight squeeze that we didn't expect
with with the way that the bills are
written. It is not providing funding for
some of the mandates for what we are
paid for for certain uh for
certifications, credentials of value
that has been narrowed in scope as well.
Yet they've broadened the base for who
should be um educated and and not pay
for education, which is good that they
don't have to pay. But the for us it's
how do we manage it such that it does
not become an overwhelming fiscal burden
for us. Vast academy it definitely needs
to be expanded at an extraordinary rate
because these bills are making it very
clear that this is what is expected of
higher education. But I do not see in
this bill book where they are actually
paying for this.
What do we do? So chancellor, that is a
concern because we have not ever
expanded vast academy and even the age
for vast academy is low but that now it
is in this book as a very real issue and
a very real requirement by house and
senate bills. But I don't see where
there where there's any pay associated
with it. So, how are we going to do
that?
Well, I think, you know, it requires us
to be really very methodical and
intentional about how we schedule all of
our courses, whether they're the
short-term credentials of value, the
general academic courses that transfer,
the institutional licenses and
certifications, the academic transfer,
all of those are going to be key. And we
know that there is an increase of
students within our community who are
neurode divergent. And so we are going
to have to address those student
populations as well. And I saw Dr. Lewis
walk in as well and he oversees
uh Sue Morasca who is with the Vast
Academy and I'd like for him to come
forward and talk about the expansion of
the VAS Academy because last year there
was an expansion and this year there is
another expansion as well to Acres
Homes. Dr. Lewis.
Yes, Chancellor. We are expanding the
vast academy throughout the district and
currently we're setting up uh
opportunities at the northeast location
for VAST students. In addition to that
trustee, the age range for VAST has
expanded. We received a Moody grant. So
we have bridge to career pathways which
is allowing those students on the two
different tiers of VAS if they're the
upper tier to be able to complete in the
VAS program and then move into a
workforce program. In addition to that,
under the direction of Miss Morasa, we
were able to get financial aid for those
students. So now we have uh a larger
footprint to work with more students.
The plan is to expand this out further
and further throughout the district, but
we had to start somewhere. So it's an
incremental uh spread at currently. So
we have norththeast,
uh, southwest, we have central, and
we're going to continue to expand out to
southeast and all the rest of the
colleges as where the populations lie.
How many students
at students at this point? Uh the exact
number, I need to get that exact number,
but the numbers for the VAS program
normally service around 155 or so
students per year due to the level of
serviceability and the the number of
individuals that are needed due to the
students
levels of ability. So you have the life
skills level and then you have a level
that's working more towards workforce
and we're able to facilitate the two.
The most exciting portion of this is
that now there's no age limit. Initially
it was looking at 18 to 25 but again um
working with Dr. Perez and myself
Sumarasa we've expanded that to whatever
end. So it doesn't matter the age of the
individual. So any student at any age
can come back and engage in the vast
academy with the hope and the
encouragement and the supports to get
those students to receive some type of
credential here at the college.
uh what are the corporations that are
willing to work with us to hire our
students because I know quite a few
will. They have dedicated uh employment
spaces for uh neurodeiverse uh students
that are graduating.
Yes.
What what do we have a list of
corporations and how can we expand that
list?
Well, currently we're working with MD
Anderson. We started this fall with MD
Anders for an internship that students
will be working there at that location.
And we're also working with community
organizations such as uh the center for
pursuit that I believe is on the east
side and we're working at various other
organizations that focus on um expanding
those opportunities. In addition to the
Moody Foundation, they are also working
with us to find different types of
opportunities for individuals to engage.
We're more than happy to accept any
leads for partnering with any
corporations for neuro divergent
students um at any point in time. But
the college is working towards a
comprehensive means by which to address
the needs of all community members
within this city.
So Dr. Christina Robinson and and her
extensive list
um that does not include neurodeiverse
uh employment.
We need to understand what that list
looks like. And I know that um stu uh
students who are neurodeiverse,
those corporations do understand who
they can hire and where they can put
them. They do have an understanding of
that. But we need that list. Um because
if we've expanded from I think we should
do 76 students a year or something. It
was very low.
Yeah, it was a u
it was very low.
Yeah. The capacity initially it started
at central. There was a small number of
students that we initially worked with
and again under Sumaraska to build that
up but the team has grown over the years
and the investment of the institution
into these other locations has allowed
for that expansion and also the
expansion of students who are more
diverse and that's grown across the
state as you mentioned earlier and the
chancellor has mentioned with that same
growth we are trying working to meet
those ends in fact we even are working
with online options for some of the
students who have the abilities to
engage in that way so last week uh we
had an opportunity to visit with I had
an opportunity to visit with Sue and
others and looking at opportunities for
even maybe engaging in online
opportunities for more students through
the VAS program.
So we we will train them for online
learning because I know during during co
it was a nightmare for neurodeiverse
students that that was an adjustment
they could not make. So it would be it's
good to know that uh Sumarasa has
already headed in that direction. I have
to give kudos to Vast Academy. They've
done an extraordinary work and they're
nationally recognized for what they do
and they are the best at what they do
and they have literally worked. They've
literally made bricks without straw. So
I don't know what our budget looks like
and I know our budget is very tight. Um
I'm looking at Dr. Han. It's very tight.
But this is a population that has grown
considerably in this region. But they
are eligible for work when those
corporations work with us and to to
define what they want from us. It's the
same thing that we've done in the past.
We when we did it for AI, robotics and
and cyber security, we brought in
industry to tell us what the training
should look like, what the curriculum
should look like, and all of it came a
stellar program. So I look forward to uh
corporations working with vast academy
to guarantee these students employment.
that is a lot of those students are
employment eligible but you have to find
the companies that are willing to work
closely with us to guarantee that. So
thank you for expanding it. It is a
blessing. Thank uh the vast academy team
for the work that they've done because
it was not easy to expand and yet
they've done it again
and so I look forward to seeing them
gain yet another national recognition
for the work that they've done. Thank
you.
Thank you.
That's my report, Madam Chair, unless
there are any other questions.
Definitely.
We did right now.
Yeah.
Like thumbs up.
Team work. Team work. I had a chance to
present it, but there are many behind
pushing it forward. So, let's
acknowledge everyone else who's been
been doing that work. So, I appreciate
it. Thank you for working with us
so much.
Okay. Um, the external relations
committee meeting will now
adjourn at 3:45 p.m.
for September 3rd, 2025 will come to
order at 3:45. I'm sorry. The meeting
was called for the purpose listed on the
duly posted meeting notice. The other
committee members are trustee Adriana
Tamez,
um, Prietta Vandal Stalworth, and
alternate Shaun Chieven. A citizen
desiring to appear before the board of
trustees shall complete the hearing of
citizens form 24 hours prior to the
meeting and file set application with
the board services office. There are no
citizens signed up to speak before the
marketing committee. Today we will
discuss item I A strategic
communications and marketing update.
This is a report item. No action is
required. Dr. Ford Fiser will introduce
the item.
Thank you very much, Mr. Chair, members
of the board. This item provides an
update to the board of trustees on the
strategic communications and marketing
initiative that centers on students
student success and communication and
marketing outcomes. And with your
permission, Mr. Chair, Dr. Reema Adil,
interim vice chancellor of strategic
communications and marketing will
provide an update and answer all
questions. Dr. Dill.
Thank you, Chancellor. Good afternoon,
everyone. Madame trustee and esteemed
members of the board. So I do have our
monthly updates today. Um as we being
intentional with our efforts, our
marketing and communication efforts
remain focused on strategically aligning
our resources to support a student
success. We are working to better align
our KPIs with key enrollment matrices to
ensure every campaign and every
initiative that we have contributes
meaningfully to institutional goals
keeping students at the front and center
of it.
So the first update briefly are rebrand
efforts that are going on. We are
continuing a phase roll out of our
rebrand with visual in the slide decks
highlighting our integrated social media
and website strategy. We are actively
partnering with college directors to
ensure brand consistency across all
channels
and to maintain clear communication with
internal and is uh and external
stakeholders.
The next ongoing efforts are website
redesign. Um the website redesign is
currently 54%
complete and is on a schedule for March
2025 launch.
We are in the content accuracy and
tagging phase which is critical to
ensure an intuitive and informative
experience for prospective and current
students.
some of our key generic marketing
messages. As we are rebranding, we have
developed a set of core marketing
messages that help us reposition the
college with a focus on the student
outcomes. These consistent
outcomesdriven messages will support
support a more unified voice across all
communication efforts.
our monthly marketing and communication
report. Um, so we have, this is just an
example of some of the marketing
efforts. It's a sample that we have put
out there, but prior to getting here,
HCC has generated $95 million in earn
media value over the last year. So as we
continue our effort, we executed
multiple targeted mini campaigns and our
comparative July report shows increased
performance across all KPIs.
The two marketing efforts, the two
ongoing efforts that we have currently
going on, one is Houston Reconnect
campaign. As of today, we have received
student leads um and 63 students
confirmed in enrollment.
Our LVN to ADN campaign drove a
significant spike in interest leading to
20 enrolled candidates reaching full
program capacity
for the fall semester.
And here are some new um initiative that
we are exploring. Uh
in this wall we are trying to see how we
can further align marketing strategies
with the student success outcomes and
enrollment drivers. With this I thank
you and I welcome any questions or
feedback.
Um I have a question. Thank you madam
chair or who's
yes go ahead. Um, so on the on the name
change, and you may have covered this,
but on the name change, uh, I know we're
slowly transitioning,
are we doing or do we have a plan for a
massive blast out of of the um, of the
name change and same vision, same
mission, new name kind of thing. And
again, you may have already covered
this, but I just want to reiterate
because I I do have people that come up
to me and ask, you know, oh, you changed
the name. Uh, uh, you changed the name.
And I know we're putting it out there in
little bits and and we also are putting
it out there. But yes, I'd like to know
what the plan is uh to make all aware.
So we have several things lined up. Um
and this is our timeline. I just want to
pull it up but briefly to mention it. We
have advertorial created. We have been
doing communication through our media,
social media. But our big reveal coming
up this Friday at the convocation. We
have a lot of influencers and media in
the crowd. So that will give us a big um
push one more time this Friday. By
Monday morning we have planned that is
with in collaboration with the
communication directors at the colleges
to start updating all our websites. Um
so that is currently the plan but if you
can see right now we are putting out
teasers something big is coming that is
all over the social media and uh moving
forward we will have our starting this
Monday actually Friday it's effort we
will have our brand reveal and we'll
continue those effort we do have plans
for student engagement on campuses and
continue these short teasers so yeah we
will see it all over the
Any other questions? Trusty Trust.
Hi. Um, wanted to ask about the Houston
Reconnect slide. Um, so 51 students are
now 63 students per your updated number.
Great progress, but it still falls quite
a bit short of the aspirations that we
had when we passed the budget. I think
we were thinking more in the lines of
about 8,000 students. So, a couple
orders of magnitude off. um curious I
mean recognizing this is very difficult
work to identify students who are living
their lives and inform them that there's
this great opportunity and then convince
them to change their lives to come back
and and uh finish their education but
curious through this experience over the
last few months what have we learned
what are we planning to change so that
we can get more or closer to the target
student population that we had
envisioned for the spring semester
trustee this is a very good question so
we are working very closely with our
student services partner
almost checking in um daily weekly to
see where we are and how we can further
enhance our efforts for marketing. It is
something that we are also seeing in our
connect to campaign that is currently
going on. I'll report next month on that
one. But we are making sure if we need
to put money behind it, we make it a a
paid campaign if there is. So we are
just making sure we are using different
media and different ways to connect with
the different audiences that we have.
All right. Thanks. I think it'd be
helpful to understand um in the web
perhaps um where y'all have identified
vectors that aren't as work as
successful where you're changing your
approach to try to target students where
they're at. Um just be good information
to have and we don't need to take up
meeting time necessarily for that. So
thank you in advance.
Thank you.
Uh thank you for the pre presentation.
Um the social I want to make a comment
about the social media uh because I
appreciate seeing uh Houston Community
College at the social media level in a
in a in the passive perspective um in
LinkedIn and LinkedIn is clearly our
largest uh reach. I think it's what
130,000 people something like that.
great reach. Um, also having them at at
uh in the meta system for Facebook and
um um the I never I don't like the other
one, but anyway, I do like to see I I do
see a lot of Southwest. I do see Central
and I I expect to see more of Southeast.
We need a balance. We need a we need to
see
H Houston City College at the broad
brushstroke level in social media and
then each of our colleges has to present
itself because there are some specific
things that each college has to do and
has to offer. And so um the social media
handles um the profiles and the cover
images. I know it's a lot to clean up uh
for a website that we decided to change
and then decided to change the name
after the fact. So, we put the cart
before the horse, but we still have to
get it done. Um so,
in two places, we're not visible, but
we'll have to work on that. Uh because
we have to follow the my concern is the
18 to 35 year olds.
That's a substantial
uh demographic and we're missing them.
Um we're missing them, but it's because
their social media perspective is very
different from what we perceive to be
social media. Um I definitely
would like to see
a larger footprint in the other media
areas. uh because we cannot forget that
those media areas have an impact. So can
you all explain to us what the other
media areas areas look like besides
social and website?
Thank you trustee for asking. Um I want
to start with what you were talking
about the other colleges and the good
things they're doing. You're right. We
do need to get on the same page with
social media. We are we have the people
on team. We're establishing a special
social media team that's going to look
at things totally differently. We're
going to strategically send out posts.
We're not just going to send out a post
about an ice cream social at a campus at
3:00. The campuses can be doing that.
The college directors can be doing that.
We're looking at strategically coming up
with a calendar to where all the college
directors are college uh uh campus
communications directors can be on the
same page with us. We're meeting with
them monthly. We're going to work with
them to make sure we're all on the same
page. So, we applaud the success the
Southwest College is having. Like you
said last month, we want to learn from
them. You did well with this. How can we
do well with it? How we're going to do
things differently is we're looking at
different ways we're going to reach
certain audiences. For example, if we
have a reel that performs well, we're
going to look at that reel. Who do we
send it out to? What are the key words?
What are the key phrases? How did we
target that? where did we get the
success? And we're going to try to
replicate that. We're testing that out
right now. We're kind of using a couple
of our TV shows to test out our reels
and see what draws the attention. Then
we can go back to the communications
directors, compare our data to theirs,
and then we can all be on the same page
and see how we can be successful
together as opposed to one college
getting 8,000 views for a view for a
post, another college getting 80. We
want to be all on that team.
good that that you can ask Southwest
what were they doing because they're
everywhere. I mean and I I have to play
games on my phone cuz I have to stop my
mind and they pop up all the time even
in the games. It's like what are these
guys what are these guys doing?
I'm seeing HCC commercials, the
15-second commercials, 30 second
commercials in the games section on
social media, which is good because as
much as we may not want to admit it,
that passive punch sticks in the back of
your mind. So, the I mean, what are they
they're doing a lot right? I see
Central. I see Southeast. One of the
challenges I have is I can't repost a
lot of it and I have reach, but I can't
repost it cuz it doesn't allow me to.
That's a problem. Two months ago, I had
899,000
views and none of them were HCC. That's
a problem. So if I cannot repost, if I
cannot help, that's a challenge because
my goal is to make sure that as many
people that I know that I reach can
actually see HCC. That is my goal. So
you all have to help me to make that
right.
Yeah. Trustee, we are building a a
library and we are putting marketing all
marketing collateral um on a schedule.
So we will have everything ready prior
to every semester aligning it with the
um with our um the schedules. So we are
here on providing monthly reports. Allow
us to bring more information back to
you. I'm sure you'll be pleased. We are
in alignment and we are listening going
in that direction.
You guys are doing a great job and you
it's it's good to see us catch up with
social media. I would encourage you to
also post on the Association of
Community College Trustees social site.
They're expecting to see success and
we're not we're not posting on with
them. And so if we hashtag and post with
them, I think that's another area where
we have bragging rights as an
institution in comparison to the other
1199 colleges. I just happen to think
we're the best. So, thank you for the
work that you've done and thank you for
catching up to social media and thank
you for the website changes.
Chancellor,
thank you very much, Mr. Chair. And of
course, I I would like to add on to the
comments that were made about the social
media and indicate as well that we are
attempting to unify all of the work that
we do in terms of the messaging as
opposed to having the messaging that
might be fragmented in some way. And so,
that's the reason for the library. But
in addition uh to that I have to of
course as you indicated commend
southwest and central but the other
colleges as well have been sending out
messages also not just those to
northeast I've seen those Coleman
college and of course I have to uh
address also south south northwest also
all of the colleges but I have to
commend HCCTV and communications because
Frank has what is called social media on
Instagram and he has gotten a number of
hits and so we're now looking at ways
that we can then bring that into what we
do as well to reach a unique audience
and if you could just briefly touch on
that please.
Frank Cooper is going to be working on a
threeperson team um which is going to be
strategic with social media as we
mentioned earlier. some of the things,
Frank, and that's one of the things I've
sat down and talked to Frank like Frank,
you've getting 60,000 views on on one of
your videos. What exactly is this? And
it goes back to what we used in the news
days. What gets the views? The action
video. He went out to the uh to the
center of excellence, the public safety
institute, and he shot firefighters
going up and down the stairs. People
liked seeing that, and they started
re-sharing it, and it became viral.
We're looking at ways of doing that, but
I've been going through, we released a
number of, you'll get a report on this
next month, but we released a number of
videos for the C2W campaign. Um, so
their reels, we produced five of them.
We customized about 12 different ones
for colleges upon their choice, but we
had one style within a few days with
just a few dollars behind this. We're
talking less than 200. you know, we're
getting 1.7,000 views on a 10-second
reel that leads them to the website
where they can register. So, we're
looking at things, measuring on what
works, what doesn't, and if does work,
why does it, and how can we do it again
and get better at it.
Um, thank you all. Dr. Adele, I
appreciate your report. We had a short
time and I know uh it wasn't sufficient
for you to go over everything you're
doing because I realize you and your
team been working real hard and are
doing a lot of positive things. If
there's no other comments from our
fellow trustees, the marketing committee
meeting adjourns at 4:03 p.m. Thank you.
I mean,
The committee of the whole meeting for
September the 3rd, 2025th will now come
to order at
4:11 p.m.
Meeting was called for the purposes as
listed on the duly posted meeting
notice. A cit a citizen desiring to
appear before the board of trustees
shall complete the hearing of citizen
form 24 hours prior to the meeting and
the file set application with the board
service
um office.
Mr. Saias
is registered to speak. Mr. SAS
[Applause]
welcome.
Thank you members of the board. My name
is Jean Sakius.
I'm here to speak to you obviously
not only as a concerned citizen
but as one
who believes
in the mission of Houston Community
College which is to educate.
Excuse me. I didn't read my whole
script. It's not your it's my doing. So
just hold on.
Hold your thought. A citizen desiring to
appear before the board. Okay. The 24
hours time allotted to each citizen or
organizations shall be limited to 4
minutes. The board may stop any speaker
who makes complaints against a specific
trustee or employee or comments about
the appointment, employment, evaluation,
reassignment, duties, discipline or
dismissal of a specific employee and may
require the speaker to resume his or her
comments in close session as permitted
under the personnel exception of the
open meetings act. And now to uh sign to
appear before the board is Mr. Saias.
Thank you so very much very kindly.
Thank you. Again, I'm here to speak to
you, to address you, board of members,
not as
a concerned citizen,
but as one who believes
in you in the mission of Houston
Community College, which is to educate,
to uplift, to serve
our community, and to perform with
dignity.
As a former instructor,
I spent my life teaching for about 30 30
years. So, I'm a former educator.
Students
rise
when dignity leads.
Students perform
as a teacher, former educators, board
members, all of us. We cannot lead our
students if we do not
if we don't have dignity as we are
leading them.
I am so excited. I love this
institution. I've seen every one of you
have great dignity as you perform. The
whole city is in love with Fusion
Community College. I have recruited
several hundreds of students coming to
this college without you knowing about
it. I'm I do care about this institution
as a former teacher.
Dignity is very important.
Leadership
without truth
is a failure.
Leadership with truth
is freedom.
We need to decide are we going to give
freedom to our students or are we going
to fail them.
It has come to this community's
attention
that a newly appointed trustee
may have misrepresented
her residency
and that is not dignity.
If she lie about her residency,
what else will she lie in the future?
Will she conform to corruption
or will she
I would say transform to a corrupt mind
ultimately
will she be able to perform
for our students for our community to
help the chancellor who has a great
heart for this college will she be able
to help her to perform for our
community.
Leadership
without truth is failure. Leadership
with freedom.
Leadership with truth is freedom. Will
you give our students freedom? Thank you
very much.
Thank you. We appreciate concerns raised
during the hearing of citizens portion
of the meeting. If the matters you
raised are not included on the board
agenda, state law. Specifically, the
Texas Open Meetings Act prohibits the
board from discussing or acting on this
issues at this board meeting. The
comments provided will be taken into
consider consideration. Thank you.
Topics for discussion and or action.
We'll begin with item A, review of HCC
investment portfolio. This is a report
item. No action is required. Dr. Ford
Fischer will introduce the item.
Thank you, madame board chair, members
of the board. This is a discussion item
to review the HC investment portfolio as
you indicated with our investment
advisors and with your permission.
Madame Chair, Dr. Sheria Han and Miss
Emily Upshaw of Valley View LLC will
provide an overview and answer questions
first. Dr. Han.
Thank you, Chancellor Board and Chance
and Chair. Uh this is Emily Upshaw from
Valley View Consulting. She's been here
before. She will update you on our
investment portfolio. Thank you so much,
Emily.
Thank you, Dr. Han. Good evening,
everyone. Chancellor, Madame Chair,
board trustees. I appreciate your time.
Um I can spend about as long as you like
on this. I can talk all day about
investments. Um, but I'll try to keep it
as brief as you like.
Um, I wanted to go through and give you
an economic update what's going on. Um,
I can talk until I'm blue in the face of
this. And tomorrow morning when we wake
up, everything's changed because of the
headlines. So, um, take it with a grain
of salt. Things will change, but I'm
trying to talk in generalities. I want
to give you an idea of what's happening,
what's been happening, and how that
impacts your portfolio. Last year I came
here, we had some recommendations on
ways to improve your portfolio. So I
want to talk about the progress that was
made on that. You've made some good
strides there. Uh and then we just have
a few other recommendations that you can
continue with if you choose to. Um just
some things that we typically offer for
our clients. So want to make sure that
you all have opportunities to discuss
those ideas as well. So I'll start with
econom economic update.
So the federal open market committee
referred to as FOMC. They're the
committee that sets the federal funds
rate and that has a large impact on the
rates that you actually earn. Uh because
as a government entity you typically
have to keep your investments pretty
short. Your investment policy requires
three years and less. So that rate
that's set by the FOMC has a really big
impact on what you can invest in. Right
now they have been taking the uh wait
and see approach. they haven't been
making any changes to that rate because
they want to see how various policies
that have been implemented will impact
the economy uh in general. So their goal
is to control inflation what they call
price stability and to ensure that
employment is at its maximum level. So
they are in uh the business of trying to
help the economy along. They can only
adjust that Fed funds rate to try and
help or hinder the economy in any
situation that they need to. So, uh,
right now tariffs have been the big
headline. Um, they have mentioned before
this could have a short-lived impact or
it could be more prolonged. So, they're
trying to wait and see what the market
data will tell them before they make any
moves. As I left the office today,
however, the market probability of us
seeing a rate cut of 25 basis points,
which is 0.25%
to that Fed funds rate was at 97% for
September. So, their meeting is
September 16th and 17th, and it is
highly likely we will see a rate cut.
That'll be the first one since December
of 2024. So, it's been a long time since
we've seen one, and that could have some
market impacts. The market's already
priced in that. So, the rates that
you're getting now have already uh
guessed that that will actually occur.
So, rates have actually decreased since
then. Some other items that also impact
their decision, the housing supply, that
has been a big issue. uh housing supply
has been in short uh very short for a
long period of time. So prices have gone
up and given that we are in high
interest rate time uh it's been uh
causing a lot of affordability issues.
So that's going to persist regardless of
what the FOMC does uh because supply has
so has been so short it is likely to
continue. Consumers are also slowing. Uh
the retail sales have started to slow in
general. People are not going out and
making large purchases because of the
uncertainty out there. This has a big
impact on our economy because 70% of our
economy is driven by consumers. So as
consumers start slowing down, our
economy is expected to slow as well. So
in general, the Fed funds rate cut is
likely uh in September. There's also
another one that's expected possibly in
October or December. So we just have to
get our heads wrapped around the fact
that we will start seeing lower rates.
The Treasury yield curve is something
that we always look to. Uh right now
you'll see it's an inverted yield curve.
So those higher term rates or higher
rates are being paid on the shorter term
investments versus the long-term
investments. In a normal market
environment, we would see a sloped curve
with the overnight rate paying much
lower than the longer term rate. So
we've been in this inverted yield
environment for about 2 years now. If
the FOMC does start making uh changes to
the Fed funds rate, we would expect that
curve to start normalizing. So hopefully
that's what we will see if they do
indeed start making rate cuts.
We included this just so you could see
the es and flows over time. Uh this is
just looking at the various US Treasury
rates over a period of time. So you can
see consistencies with where we're at
versus where we have been. Uh if you
look at the September 2006 all the way
to September 2009, you see the rate
falls. That was when we had uh the
housing crisis. So we had rates cut very
quickly. We were had a prolonged period
of time where the rates were very low,
the great recession. And then we had
rates start to improve before COVID came
along and then they went through their
emergency uh protocol and they uh
reduced the Fed funds rate very quickly
there as well to try to help pump some
activity into the economy. We have since
gone up as they were fighting inflation.
Those rates went really really high. But
now we are expected to start coming
down. So what the college has done is
starting to prepare the portfolio for
when those rate cuts do come because
that's the way to best protect the
interest income that you can earn on
your investments over time.
It's important to keep in mind the
investment policy goals. Uh so in your
investment policy the objectives are
stated safety of principle. You do have
taxpayer dollars so you are the steward
of their funds. Uh so maintaining safety
of principle is of utmost importance.
You also have to have to have liquidity
to pay the bills. Um so we have to make
sure that you have adequate liquid funds
so cash equivalents. You also maintain
the public trust. We do not want
anything that will uh hinder the public
trust in what the college is doing. And
then we would expect risk commensurate
yields. So you're not going out and
taking uh risks that you shouldn't. So
there's a lot of um legislation that
controls how public funds can be
invested. You have to stay within those
parameters. So rates are not going to be
like what you would see in your personal
portfolio where risk is higher. Risk is
very very low because you have taxpayer
dollars. So those yield should be
consistent with what the market's
offering. Just as a reminder, the
maximum uh maturity for your portfolio
is three years. And then the max wham,
the weighted average maturity is two
years. You have not bumped up against
that, but it's just something to be
aware of. Um we don't want your
investments going too far uh to the
three-year. So, um, you do have that
wham put in there to protect you from
liquidity issues.
We wanted you to see the es and flows of
your portfolio value. This is very
typical of a community college. You
bring in tax revenue and you're spending
down the rest of the year. This might
shift a little bit given that the state
appropriations changed now that you're
getting half of your funds in October.
Um, we might see a little bit higher uh
in that December quarter end. uh but
consistently you will probably continue
to see the same pattern.
This is your weighted average yield. So
this is about what the portfolio has
been earning over time. So I just wanted
to point out we have been we have had
higher rates for a long period of time.
Things are starting to come down. So you
will see that yield curve it will start
coming down naturally. There's nothing
anyone can do about it. As rates come
down your portfolio yield will come down
as well. The goal is to have it come
down slowly relative to other uh
investment options out there like
short-term investments.
So when I was here last year, we looked
at the composition of the June 30 of
2024 and some of the recommendations
that we had. You had a 6535 split of
your portfolio. So you had about 65%
cash, 35% in fixed income. The goal that
we suggested was about 35 or 50% cash,
50% uh fixed income. We also discussed
uh considering collateralized CDs and
money market accounts, diversifying your
um local government investment pools and
cash equivalents in general just because
we are anticipating lower yields.
So this shows the composition. The top
left corners, that's June 2024. Uh
bottom right corner, June 2025. So, if
you were to look at these charts, and I
know that the numbers are hard to see
here, but in June of 2024, you had a
6535 mix. When we got to June of third,
uh June of 2025, you had a 4654 split.
So, you were much closer to that 50/50
split, which was great to see.
So, when we were going back, you got to
that 50% ladder with fixed income. You
did consider collateralized CDs. you
actually purchased a CD um to have 10%
of your portfolio held in that CD and
then you diversified the local
government investment pools and money
market fund options that you had. If you
look back at this chart, you had 59% in
local government pools in 2024. In 2025,
that was down to 30%. So, you had
shifted some of those funds not only to
fixed income but also to the money
market funds just to give you some
diversity between providers.
Oops. So, our current recommendations,
the lattering strategy that you have
been implementing is really the best
thing you can do to guard against when
rates start to fall. So, we want you to
continue lading those investments as you
have been. Anytime you have maturities
come up with those US treasuries or
agencies that you own, we would highly
suggest investing those as they mature.
We also wanted you to consider
collateralized CDs at other
institutions. Um, and I wanted to
explain collateral just briefly here
just to make sure everyone's comfortable
with how it works. So that way you can
consider uh banking institutions that
are outside of the the big four. Um,
when you have collateralized CDs, the
bank can collateralize, so they can
offer in return to protect your funds
securities as collateral, a federal home
loan bank letter of credit, or they can
use FDIC insurance. So all of those are
eligible under the public funds
collateral act. So when you go to a bank
um it can be a smaller, more localized,
more regionalized bank. They can offer
that collateral and your funds are
always protected. So I wanted to make
sure that you all were comfortable with
that. If your staff were to go out and
find a regional bank that's paying a
higher rate than one of the big four
banks, um they always have to offer you
collateral so your funds are always
protected. So, I don't want that to
scare anyone. There are good
opportunities out there with some of
your more regional banks. So, we want to
make sure that that's an option for you.
The goals of lading though are to hedge
future rate decreases. That's absolutely
uh what we would recommend that you do.
And it also stabilizes your interest
income for your budget. So, it makes it
much easier to plan uh for the future
about how much income you anticipate
coming in. So, that way you're prepared.
Rates are going to start coming down. So
we would expect that that interest
income estimate would start coming down
with it. Uh but it is always helpful to
have that in the back of your mind uh
for extra income.
We also want you to consider higher
yielding money market account options.
So money market accounts are different
than local government pools and money
market funds. A money market account is
actually a deposit at a bank and similar
to CDs, they will actually be
collateralized. So they're fully
protected. And one of the options that
we've seen a lot lately is called ICS.
It used to be called Insured Cash Sweep.
It's now the Intrify Services Cash
Account. Um it's managed by a company
called Intrify. And what they do, it's a
spread program. So you have one bank
relationship. They're paying you a rate
that they set um at the IC level. And
then when your funds go into that bank,
they are spread to various banks that
are part of that interfy network in
under $250,000 increments. So you have
FDIC insurance with various banks across
the nation, but you have one
relationship with that banking
institution. So it's just a way for
government entities to be able to invest
more than $250,000 in any one bank and
still have FDIC insurance. So that has
become a pretty prevalent option out
there and it's possible that you may be
approached with a bank that offers that.
So it is a tool that is available. Um
and it's something that I just want you
to be comfortable with.
We do anticipate lower yields coming. So
as I mentioned lading those investments,
your staff has done a really good job of
getting those investments all the way
out to three years. That's going to
protect you over time. So we would
recommend that they continue with that
investment ladder.
I can keep going with any questions you
have. Like I said, happy to talk about
anything that we didn't cover, but I
wanted to give you a general overview.
Thank you, trustees. Any questions?
Trusty Wilson.
Um, you know, every day I listen to the
radio and one station says, uh, the
Federal Reserve is going to lower
interest and I turn it to another
station and something and I read one
magazine that says one thing and I read
another one and it just the constant
amount of information you get and the
varying um,
views that all these different people
have makes, you know,
my mind is swimming and you know I I I
can't I can't I can't keep up with it.
But you know and uh the tariffs I really
uh you know personally I I have a
business and uh that purchased from
overseas and I've been doing it and now
I'm the product's got a 50% tariff on it
and I'm pretty much out of business. I
can't be competitive and that's what the
administration wants and that I'm not
sure how that whole long-term tariff
thing is going to shake out and um you
know I I I do suspect that with the
lower interest rates our yield here at
the college will be going down a little
bit. So I think we have to be
realistically
realist about that. And me personally,
uh, I I don't have a problem with
dealing with regional banks. In fact,
I've been more successful in banking
relationships with regional banks than
the the big banks. So, u
uh, you
I'm I'm glad I don't have your job.
Anyway, u, that was a good report and
thank you for your
Appreciate it.
Thank you. Yes, that was a great report
and thank you for coming out and sharing
that with us.
Absolutely. Thank you for the time.
Thank you.
The next topic for discussion is review
of H. Oh, we did that one. Okay. Monthly
investment reports, financial statement
and budget reviews for July 2025th.
Uh, do we have a motion to approve item
B?
So moved.
It's been moved and second. Thank you.
Um,
Dr. Ford Fisher will introduce the item.
Thank you, Madam Board chair, members of
the board. This is a recommendation item
for your consideration to accept the
investment report, financial statement,
and budget review for the month of July
2025.
And with your permission, Madame Chair,
if there are questions, Dr. Sher Han,
senior vice chancellor of finance and
administration will answer all
questions.
Thank you.
Thank you, Chancellor Board and board
chair. Um, we're doing well financially
once again. We're coming to the end of
our fiscal year. We've seen almost a
realization of almost 100% of the
revenue we expected at 97% out of the
465 million of the budget for FY25.
Um, you're probably aware of this.
Salaries, what I call loaded wage
salaries and benefits represent 67% of
our expenses. There's another large
category contra contracted services
representing 8%. So those two elements
represent threequarters of our expenses,
but we're managing managing them well.
On the investment side, we have $2.1
million of uh unrealized gain. That
means nothing was sold but for the book
value has increased by that amount.
And the balance sheet just to make it a
complete report. Once again we're doing
better than we were doing in the pri
prior year. Um we have lower
current assets this year because we have
improved accounts receivable collections
in general. So a slight improvement of
roughly $5 million. And likewise, we
have a little more on the long-term
investment side. I think Emily addressed
some of that in her discussion. So,
we're slightly higher of um
our long-term investments for
non-current assets.
See if there's anything else that we can
share. We did share some information
about our bond debt that was sent out in
a TI. We looked at the various uh
expense categories in fund one and fund
8 across student revenue bonds, loan
star notes, limited tax bonds, and
maintenance tax notes. And we showed the
timing of when each of those payments
occur. So, everyone should have that
data. And if you have any questions
about the financial reports, I would be
happy to address them.
Thank you. Trustees,
any questions? Trusty she
looks like from the numbers we're on
track for about a 1015 millionish dollar
surplus for the year. Is that still
accurate or
actually I don't think so. I think it
can be a little less. I would if I had
to venture a guess I would say between 6
and 8 million. Okay.
We're going to have a soft close
probably next week sometime early next
week and then shortly thereafter a final
close. But I'm guessing because of the
additional uh volume of students that we
have now and additional staffing costs,
we're eating into that 10 million a
little bit. So,
okay. No, thanks.
It's good news though.
Good news.
Well, we're ready to vote on item B,
investment report, financial statement,
budget reviews for July 2025th.
Voting is open.
Aaron, that's a yes for me.
And that is Trusty Patterson.
Yes.
Voting has concluded.
The motion passed unanimously with a
vote of 8 to zero.
Thank you so much.
Is there a motion to approve item C?
Approve chancellor's annual priorities
and performance goals for 20 25th 26.
So moved.
Second.
It has been moved and seconded. Dr. Ford
Fischer will introduce the item.
Thank you very much, Madam Board chair,
members of the board. So this is an
action item recommended for your
consideration to approve the
chancellor's annual priorities and
performance goals for 2025-26.
And with your permission, madame board
chair, I will go to the podium and
respond to all questions and provide an
overview.
trustes. We've had a chance to uh review
these goals and uh proposed goals. So,
uh, the chancellor will, you know, just
give us a highlight of them and then
we'll, if we have questions, then we'll
ask. Thank you.
Thank you very much, madame board chair,
members of the board. I'm delighted to
provide an overview of the goals that we
have here. Uh we've gotten input from
some of the trustees and certainly the
review of the goals this year will
certainly provide us with an opportunity
to begin the process of addressing the
goals much sooner this year than last
year. We have a lot of opportunities
before us and I think the goals are
really excellent and I'll quickly go
through these so that you will see what
we are focusing on. Uh and of course we
have the overview there. And then for
goal number one, increase student
persistence from 59% to 61%.
And we anticipate that we will be able
to reach this goal. The data have not
yet come in for the fall 24 and the 25
uh semester. Uh it's primarily because
we're waiting for those students to
transfer and for us to get that
information and then we'll be able to
certainly certify that we'll be able to
have the 59% as the baseline. Right now
it is anticipated but our target is 61%
the stretch goal 63. The second goal
help more students metriculate through
their developmental sequence by 5%. Once
again, you see the numbers there and we
have a stretch goal of 6%.
Goal three, grow enrollments and
credentials of value by 5%.
And of course with that you see the
baseline as well. We want to achieve
annual growth of 5% in credentials of
value. the bachelor's, associates,
semester credit hour, certificates,
academic transfer courses, occupational
skill assessment awards, and of course
the institutional certifications for
lensure as well.
Next is goal four, increase the number
of students who are persisting to a
balora degree and grow enrollment by
10%. There is continuous interest in our
balora degree programs and one of the
things that the presidents have done is
that they have focused on the commit to
complete for the students and as was
mentioned earlier for the early college
high school students they are also being
invited to get additional information
about these balora degree programs so
that they also can enroll with us at a
community college price.
You see the stretch goal there of 50%
and you see the baseline and the target
that we have set as well.
Next is the Houston Reconnect program
which is an excellent program. 50% of
students entering Houston Reconnect earn
an award within one year. And this is
what we have been focusing on with the
instructional and student services area
and of course with financial aid as well
to ensure that all of the information
that students will need would be
available to them to immediately sign up
for the program. Information was
provided earlier about the number of
students who've already completed their
application. So, we're looking forward
to expanding
our outreach throughout the community in
order to ensure that more residents of
the community are aware of this.
Presidents also are working with their
advisory committees to make sure that
their workforce advisory committee
members are aware of the opportunities
as well for those persons who are
currently employed in the workforce and
would seek that opportunity to upskill.
And of course the stretch goal there is
60% to earn a credential.
Next is the create the LVN to ADN
pathway. We're really very delighted
with all of the successes that have come
with the work that has been done through
Coleman College of Health Sciences to
get us to this point. We understand that
while the board of nurse examiners did
approve our offering this opportunity
for 30 students in the fall and 30 in
the spring, it was determined by the
college that 20 students would be great
because we're looking at ensuring that
these students are able to perform in a
way in that they're able to certainly
reach that 85% pass rate. as we prepare
and was mentioned earlier as well
as we look at allied health and
particularly with nursing that this is a
career pathway in nursing that is in
high demand and we want to help fill
that gap. So we will start focusing on
preparing for two years at least for our
students to be able to move into that
pathway uh with potentially the the RN
uh as well.
Number seven, update HCC's technology
infrastructure by installing software
and hardware updates and develop a
technology master plan. We see the goals
and the objectives of course that are
there and I did receive additional
information from the uh chair one of the
trustees on that as well. And so we'll
be including that information in terms
of some of the activities and actions
that we can address, but certainly we're
open to the board for discussion about
how you'd like for us to amend that. Uh,
of course, and we will indeed comply.
Number eight is update the HC facilities
master plan and continue to execute the
deferred maintenance plan. You see the
objective there and we are certainly
looking at that 15%
and not trying to stay below that um
that 15 or above uh below that 15%. We
have been at 12% previously and we don't
want to exceed that 15% of the exigent
spending. You had an opportunity earlier
to meet uh Mr. Sullivan, who is our new
CIO. I'd like for you to please stand
and be recognized. Uh, as well, Mr.
Sullivan is our new CIO, our chief
information officer, who will be working
with us on the software infrastructure
as well as with the master plan as well
for technology. Welcome aboard. We're
delighted that you're here.
[Applause]
And next goal nine,
develop a strategy and timeline to
address all statutory provisions of and
compliance with Senate Bill 37,
including adherence to applicable dates.
You heard the report from Dr. Young
earlier regarding to uh Senate Bill 37
and how we are moving forward with with
the additional piece that will be
submitted in January of 2027. Certainly
that will be coming to the board, but
you saw the timeline for all of the
additional components that we will be
focusing on as well. And as was
requested earlier in the meeting, Trusty
Chibin was asking for a timeline and a
date. Then with the task force meeting
on tomorrow, we should be able to comply
with the request to get all of the
information that you requested to the
board uh in October. So that provides an
update on where we are with respect to
the proposed goals and I'm open to to
questions. Madam chair, members of the
board,
thank you chancellor trustees,
questions, comments,
trusty Wilson.
Um,
you know, being on the board and us the
board making this document, I think it's
a good document and I think we did quite
well. But uh one of the the one of the
points I'd like to make this this is the
chancellor's goal, but the chancellor
has her administrative staff and it's
the faculty and it's everyone in the in
the college. Everyone at Houston City
College, this is your goals and we want
to see those stretch goals reached and
we want to keep moving forward in a very
positive direction. And uh uh I just
that's all I wanted to say was it's it's
not just the chancellor's goal. It's
it's the whole college's goal and the
board too.
Thank you very much for that.
Thank you.
Yes. That's what uh I was going to say
as well is that you know it's all of us
all of us at Houston City College. It's
we all going to work together. I've
always said we're a team of 10. you
know, the board and and you, we work
together and the better that we can work
together as a team, we'll continue
striving high and reaching our goals.
So, uh, congratulations to you and board
members, let's continue to continue
forward and shine. So, at this time,
we're now ready to vote on item C.
approved the chancellor's annual
priorities and performance goals for
2025th 2026. Voting is open.
Sharon, that's
Sharon. It's Trusty Patterson. That's a
yes for me.
Receive.
Thank you.
Dr. Tas is a yes.
Voting has concluded. The motion passed
unanimously with a vote
of 8 to zero.
Thank you, Madam Chair. Members of the
board, thank you.
And our work continues.
Thank you. The meeting of the committee
of the hold is now adjourned at
4:48 p.m.
Thank you. I said five. I'm sorry.
[Applause]
That's it.
We finished by